education@umass.edu 813 North Pleasant St. Amherst MA 01003  Directions  The first banquet for the Harold Grinspoon Foundation's Pioneer Valley Excellence in Teaching Awards was held on May 1 to recognize Hampden County West award winners. Among the winners was Katerina Sherrick, a History Teacher License graduate from the Bridges to the Future pathway. Katerina was joined by her mentor, Irene LaRoche, College of Education alum and Amherst Regional Middle School teacher. Kudos, Katerina! Bridges to the Future allows students to earn a master’s in education (M.Ed.) and prepare for initial licensure in middle or high school in one year of teaching at a rural school in western Massachusetts. Bridges gives promising teachers a year-long immersive experience teaching in a rural/suburban middle school or high school, a thorough education in best practices, broad support and mentorship, and an wide professional network. Bridges to the Future’s curriculum emphasizes the use of best practice pedagogies, integration of new and emerging technologies, and implementation of community service learning.  Student teaching is a full-time field experience for student teachers who are seeking an Initial Teacher License in Massachusetts. The purpose of the experience is to provide actual classroom experience as student teachers develop teaching competencies in context and in collaboration with a supervising practitioner (teacher at the school site) and a program supervisor (content area specialist). While student teaching, student teachers also take EDUC 510, a professional development/subject matter support seminar. In order to receive a teaching license in Massachusetts, student teachers must complete a supervised field experience following Department of Education regulations, and demonstrate work toward mastery of the “Professional Standards for Teachers” and subject matter specific standards. This full practicum provides the opportunity to meet this requirement. Bridges student teachers are expected to meet the standards at a level that is consistent with that of a beginning teacher. This does not mean absolute mastery of the standards, but means that student teachers can provide ample evidence of growth and development in learning to be a teacher in each of the areas. Supervising practitioners and university representatives must agree that student teachers are ready to teach in classrooms on their own. We have designed a portfolio process Tk20 (Teaching kindergarten through grade 20), through which the student teaching experience can be documented and evidence of work on each of the standards can be organized. Applications to Bridges to the Future can be submitted to the Graduate School. February 1st is the formal deadline for application. Qualified applicants will be invited to participate in an Interview Recruitment Day in early March, and student teaching placements are given during early April. Bridges to the Future is designed for graduating college seniors, college graduates and second career professionals of any age who: Applicants must also have satisfied the appropriate subject matter requirements. For questions about the Bridges to the Future pathway, or if you would like to make an advising appointment, please contact the Educator Information Office.  813 North Pleasant St. Amherst MA 01003 Be A Teacher Programs Apply Values in Practice Research Centers About the College Directory of Offices People A-Z Giving & Support News & Events Accessibility ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact