CNN Underscored is your guide to the everyday products and services that help you live a smarter, simpler and more fulfilling life. The content is created by CNN Underscored. CNN News staff is not involved. When you make a purchase, we receive revenue. In addition to the $699 iPhone 11 announced earlier today, Apple is also releasing two other versions of their new smartphone for 2019, the iPhone 11 Pro and Pro Max. These have a new stainless design with three -- yes, count 'em, three cameras. They will come in midnight green, space gray, silver and gold. It's official: Apple's Tim Cook just unveiled the new iPhone 11. This is basically the successor to the iPhone XR, keeping the fun colors and anodized aluminum design, and adding what so far seems to be the biggest new feature, a dual camera on the back. When it comes to outdoor gear that's loved by people all over the world, Columbia is a tried and true brand. From weatherproof jackets to fleece gloves and everything in between, Columbia really has it all. And even though you might not be thinking about snowy winter days yet, Columbia's Labor Day Sale is the perfect time to stock up on cold weather products that you'll be glad to have, once the temperature starts to drop. As part of an ongoing series, the CNN Underscored team showcases outstanding deals you can shop right now on the CNN Store. Each week, our staff chooses a product to feature that we think you'll love. Labor Day is nearly upon us, which means it's time for eBay's huge annual sale. The event has already started, but don't worry, it runs until midnight on Sept. 2. In addition to savings up to almost 90%, you can also enjoy free shipping on a majority of items. Instead of waiting for Labor Day weekend to discount Apple's entire iPad lineup, Walmart has flipped the switch early. Unlike the iPad Pro deals from Amazon we recently highlighted, Walmart's iPad sale covers brand new tablets, not refurbished. That means you get Apple's full warranty, and if you want, you can sign up for AppleCare, too. In honor of Labor Day weekend, Adidas is offering 30 percent off across their entire site. Everything from hoodies and leggings to sneakers, backpacks, track pants and more are all included. In a classic end-of-summer and back-to-school sale, Anker products are deeply discounted on Amazon. The new Apple Watch Series 5 was announced earlier today at Apple's 9/10 "By Innovation Only" event. Following the major redesign we saw just last year on the Series 4, the Series 5 features an always-on display to constantly show the time and other complications, like weather, timers or other apps. A compass is also inside the Series 5, which will be nice for hikers and those who use the Watch for mapping. Summer is sadly winding down and in just a matter of weeks we'll be swapping our swimsuits for sweaters, our sandals for boots, and packing away our beloved sundresses, linens, and espadrilles. But when it comes to packing away our ivory skirts, white jeans, and cream-colored tops, do we really need to put them away after Labor day? Please enable JavaScript for a better experience.