Kuali Research is now live for proposal submissions, awards management, and Conflict of Interest (COI). --------------------------------- Welcome to the gateway to research and engagement at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. Research and Engagement administers the campus's research enterprise, working in conjunction with academic, government, and private partners to translate new knowledge and scientific discoveries into technical innovations and scholarly works that benefit society and create opportunity for students, faculty, and the public. Our major functions encompass two broad areas: research administration and compliance, and research development and engagement. Our constituent units work collaboratively to provide faculty and staff with the administrative support, services, and resources necessary to secure research funding and effectively manage grants and contracts and requisite compliance with state and federal laws. Research and Engagement also oversees large, multi-college institutes and affiliated core facilities and provides support for over 60 interdisciplinary research centers and institutes campus-wide. UMass Innovation Institute expedites research partnerships with industry to move university discoveries and technologies forward into society.  Technology Transfer Office spurs the commercialization of university research for public benefit while protecting intellectual property and ensuring recognition for researchers and inventors. University of Massachusetts Press is the book-publishing arm of the University of Massachusetts, producing and disseminating more than two million volumes to date that contribute to the university's role as a major research institution.  Past Reports on Research Research Next shares the stories and news of research, scholarship and creative activity that distinguishes UMass Amherst as a top research university. 362 Whitmore Building University of Massachusetts Amherst Amherst, MA 01003-9313 Tel: (413) 545-5270 Contact us Our Offices ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact