Jump to navigation At Isenberg, our bright students build bright futures. Earn your degree on our flagship campus in the vibrant town of Amherst. The Isenberg experience prepares our graduates to arrive in the job market with the skills and experience necessary to excel in their professions. Isenberg students become competent professionals in the business world and beyond. Our academic approach blends innovative coursework with real-world experience, giving students competitive business skills. An Isenberg education prioritizes in-the-trenches learning so graduates can hit the ground running. Our students enjoy an educational experience that gives them a head start in today’s complex business environment. Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) candidates begin their academic careers as undeclared business students and can choose a major after their first semester freshman year. Major options include: Bachelor of Science (BS) candidates begin their concentrated studies freshman year. Major options include: Minors are not offered in the Isenberg School of Management. The George W. Spiro '71 Business Communication Program The Isenberg School goes beyond basic University requirements to provide courses that enable students to develop business writing and speaking skills. In addition, the Business Communication Program houses the Communication Center, which provides one-on-one communication assistance to all Isenberg students—undergraduate, MBA and PhD. Learn more Independent Study An independent study offers students a way to receive academic credit for completing an in-depth examination of a topic related to their course of study. To pursue an independent study, students need to arrange for faculty supervision and submit a proposal for approval that includes the scope of work to complete, the academic value of the project, and the method for performance evaluation. Study Abroad UMass’ International Programs Office offers support for students who are interested in participating in an international study abroad program. Advisors work closely with each student to help them find the right program for their needs, and guide them through the application process and beyond. Domestic Exchange The National Student Exchange (NSE) Program at UMass Amherst helps students to add depth to their academic experience and course of study by exploring a different geographic and cultural environment. Students benefit from the partnership of more than 180 state universities and colleges across the U.S. by experiencing a variety of courses, completing unique internships, and exploring professional and career options. Business Research Guide The Business Research Guide lists the best UMass Amherst library resources for any line of business research. Most of the collection is available online. Guides and tutorials are available to help students develop effective research skills. For help, contact Mike Davis, Business Librarian, at jmdavis@library.umass.edu. Many resources are available including: Business Database Guide, Online Business Journals, Data and Statistics, Company Reports, Industry Reports, Market Reports, Country Reports, Reference Material, Theses and Dissertations, New Book Acquisitions, Business Database Tutorials. Connect to the Business Research Guide Need assistance with this form? Need assistance with this form? Someone will be in touch with you within 48 hours. "I knew that Isenberg was the right choice because it is a competitive business school with a great reputation, and it is getting better every year." You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.