Please choose your location from the nearest places to : Rain clearing south, and turning chilly for some by morning. Patchy rain across Wales and northern England will move southeastwards overnight, clearing from all but the far south by morning with some patchy fog forming under clearing skies. Elsewhere clear periods, and some showers across northern Scotland. Chilly by morning. A chilly start, and cloudy in the far south of England, but clearing quickly to leave warm sunny spells. Mainly dry, except some showers in northern Scotland and Northern Ireland. Dry with sunshine across England and Wales Saturday, wet and windy further north. Cloud and rain sinks southwards Sunday and Monday, followed by strong winds and showers in the north. Updated: 16:00 (UTC+1) on Thu 12 Sep 2019 Tuesday starts cloudy with some drizzle in the south. This will gradually clear with sunny spells developing for most, although showers are likely in the north. The rest of the week sees predominantly settled conditions across the UK, with any wet and windy weather confined to the far north. There'll be some warm sunshine by day, but some chilly nights with overnight fog patches possible. This weather pattern is likely to continue through the rest of the period, with drier and more settled conditions probable for many, especially across the south, while any windier conditions with rain or showers most likely across the north. Temperatures are expected to be around average, although warm in the southeast at first, and cool by night with air frosts likely in prone locations. Updated: 16:00 (UTC+1) on Thu 12 Sep 2019 Confidence remains low for late September and early October, however it is likely that the more settled conditions will prevail until the end of September, with any wet and windy weather largely confined to the north, although this could move further southeast at times. Moving into October the most likely situation seems to be a return towards a more changeable weather pattern with occasional spells of wet and windy weather interspersed with drier and brighter interludes. Temperatures are most likely remain close to, or a little below average, with the coldest conditions across the north, and with a risk of frosts at night under clear skies. Updated: 16:00 (UTC+1) on Thu 12 Sep 2019 Video forecasts Climate change refers to a large-scale, long-term shift in the planet's weather patterns and average temperatures. What weather conditions are typically associated with areas of high and low pressure? There are four seasons in the year in the UK, but what causes them and how do they affect us? How to avoid a camping disaster in dodgy great British weather, from the experts at The Scouts Association. © Crown Copyright Please note that when changing units, only forecasts and maps will be affected.