We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes CMASS is a one-stop destination for students who need more personal assistance while at UMass. Visit us at Wilder Hall - Mon-Fri, 9am-5pm. Are you sure you want to view these Tweets? Viewing Tweets won't unblock @1stopcenter CMASS UMass Retweeted BWSP Upward Bound Hey CMASSS @1stopcenter ! You are specially mentioned by BWSP? Upward Bound!https://twitter.com/BWSPUpwardBound/status/1151683370088325121 … CMASS UMass added, Nathalie Amazan '20 graduated high school with 4 people. Hear what resources she found helpful at @UMassAmherst and how she's involved on campus today.https://buff.ly/2JIB9zn "It is more important now than ever to get involved and to learn more about people who are different from ourselves ... there's more that's going to bring us together than keep us apart," says Evan Wang '20. Hear how CMASS has helped him navigate @UMassAmherst and find success.pic.twitter.com/9nrEx6N1K2 Have you ever wondered how your favorite Cultural Center came to be? Join CMASS and our Cultural Center Fellows this afternoon as they present their findings to the community on the history of UMass' Cultural Centers.pic.twitter.com/zMA48FpJqP YKCC's APIA Heritage Dinner is happening tomorrow! Come through to meet Angry Asian Girls at a semi-formal dinner!pic.twitter.com/8s6iJwYkDu Come support your peers tonight and listen to their stories about race and intersecting identities featured in videos! See you there!pic.twitter.com/IyzH0Bqf9F On Thursday, April 4, the Yuri Kochiyama Cultural Center and Josephine White Eagle Cultural Center joined forces to host "Significance of the Lei in Hawaiian Culture." Check out our photo story!https://spark.adobe.com/page/bIiXjkCEzaA3E/?fbclid=IwAR0cNSDKhAwWg7rh7PGQS_oGFfwXXAbIMDFrnb-v1MjW5wuJ2YoebSipBq0 … Amazing work by our photographer Cynthia, from the 38th Annual UMass Powwow!!pic.twitter.com/WkDoYCnTiB Join us for a screening of student stories about race and intersectionality!pic.twitter.com/leWOOqk9QC Check out these upcoming events!pic.twitter.com/qQXJr7lxbX Movie Night at YKCC! pic.twitter.com/Z7cA0zu1gs TOMORROW!pic.twitter.com/IDMSxSnPHR Come make your own lei with JWECC and YKCC this Thursday!pic.twitter.com/oIxoRBMA6G Want to learn how to make some authentic Pupusas? Join LACC this Thursday from 6-8pm!pic.twitter.com/RreixkS56l Due to unforeseen circumstances, unfortunately, the UMPD and CMASS will postpone the Amazing Race for Fall 2019!pic.twitter.com/fdFTduyjWT MOCCASINS @ JWECC has been postponed!!~! New schedule TBA!!!!pic.twitter.com/cBjptSqFmX Stop by JWECC next Monday and make your own pair of MOCCASINS!pic.twitter.com/DAaiTGW4wW Stop by JWECC next Monday and make your own pair of MOCCASINS!pic.twitter.com/DAaiTGW4wW Stressed about midterms? Head over to YKCC for a movie night tomorrow!pic.twitter.com/bk8XCidYej Upward Bound is now fielding applications for their Summer Institute positions! They're looking for tutors/mentors, team leaders and more! Positions are compensated with a stipend, housing, and meals for the employment period. Learn more and apply: https://buff.ly/2JrKihc pic.twitter.com/kZCU4awQeS @1stopcenter hasn't Tweeted yet. Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.  You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.