Students in our Clinical Nurse Leader (MS-CNL), Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) and PhD programs may elect to complete the GCNE in addition to the requirements of their programs. The program is also available to nurses and nursing faculty who are not enrolled in one of our other programs and who wish to develop and enhance their teaching skills. Students who complete the GCNE program and have a master's or doctoral degree in nursing will qualify to take the National League for Nursing (NLN) Certification for Nurse Educators. The UMass Amherst College of Nursing offers the benefits and resources of a large, prestigious research university as well as expertise in online education. The Nursing faculty includes renowned professors whose widely published research puts them at the forefront of their fields and enriches the quality of their teaching. The GCNE consists of a flexible 5-course (15 credit) program of study focused on knowledge and skills required to teach nursing. All Nursing courses are offered online. The curriculum includes: Course Course TItle NUR 642 Teaching in Nursing NUR 697T Curriculum Devt and Eval Process in Nursing Course Course TItle EDUC 593A S-Teaching & Learning in Tech -- online summer Foundations of Higher Educ -- online summer Organizing Higher Education -- online spring/summer Managing Higher Education -- online fall Community College Foundations -- online fall Creativity, Tech, and Learning -- online fall EDUC 692K Foundations and Theories of Learning EDUC 691E Social Issues in Education EDUC 615G Integrating Tech with Instruction Community College Leadership EDUC 615T College Impact on Students Leading Higher Education Course Course Title Nur 698T Teaching Practicum in Nursing This final culminating practicum course provides the framework, mentorship, and coaching for graduate students to develop skills in teaching in the classroom, in clinical settings, and in an online environment. Click here to complete the online application for the Nursing Education Certificate. There is rolling admission for this program, so you may start in any semester. Cost per credit: $750 plus a $47 registration fee per semester.  If you have a specific question about this program, please complete the information request form or contact: Cynthia Mendoza 026 Skinner Hall Tel: 413.577.2322 Email: cmendoza@nursing.umass.edu  The College of Nursing is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE). The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master’s degree program in nursing and Doctor of Nursing Practice degree program at the University of Massachusetts Amherst College of Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The baccalaureate degree program is fully approved by the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Nursing. The University of Massachusetts Amherst is accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE; formerly the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges).     