This resource page is a compendium of campus partners, policies, and offices including resources for active inclusion presentations from Student Affairs Leaders and Directors meetings; and key places and resources for referring students (such as Single Stop Resources, CCPH support groups, and Dean of Students Support Services). We also have resources to support your communications and event promotion, for supervising staff, for professional development, and support for workplace technology. Thank you for all that you bring to our collective work to create a responsive and caring living and learning environment for our students that advances their retention, graduation, and success beyond college. The University of Massachusetts Amherst is committed to maintaining a safe working, learning and living environment for all members of the campus community. The Assessment and Care Team (ACT) focuses on students who may pose a threat to themselves or others, taking action to help the individual and protect campus safety. Representatives from key student support offices meet weekly to share information and develop action plans. ACT also consults with faculty and staff in identifying problematic behaviors. Members of the campus community concerned about a student are encouraged to involve ACT by calling the Dean of Students Office, (413) 545-2684. In an emergency, call 911 for the UMass Amherst Police Department (UMPD). Are you concerned about a student's physical or mental health? Has a student's behavior disrupted your class or caused you to worry about his or her future actions? You may have the opportunity to help a student avoid dangerous situations and obtain help. Talk to your supervisor or department chair, contact the resources below or call the Dean of Students Office. Help is available – for your student and for you. Emergency: Follow-up, support & training: If you are concerned about a student, trust your instincts and don't let uncertainty about where to begin prevent you from taking action. The Maroon Folder can help you identify signs of possible distress and make appropriate referrals.    Graduate students: Learn about graduate assistantship opportunities with Student Affairs and Campus Life Faculty Checklist: Steps to Respond to Classroom Incivility By Barbara Lee, Rutgers University and Kathleen Rinehart, Saint Xavier University, this guide walks faculty through effective steps to addressing incivility in the classroom ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact