This Privacy Policy explains how information about you is collected, used and disclosed by Chihuly, Inc. (doing business as Chihuly Studio and doing business as Chihuly Workshop) ( “Chihuly,” “we,” or “us”) when you access or use our website or other online products and services (collectively, the “Services”), or when you otherwise interact with us. We may change this Privacy Policy from time to time. If we make changes, we will notify you by revising the date at the top of the policy and, in some cases. We encourage you to review the Privacy Policy whenever you access our Services or otherwise interact with us to stay informed about our information practices and the ways you can help protect your privacy. Information You Provide to Us We collect information you provide directly to us. For example, we collect information when you create an account, join our mailing list, make a purchase, communicate with us via third party social media sites, participate in our contests, sweepstakes, or promotions, request customer support or otherwise communicate with us. The types of information we may collect include your name, email address, phone number, billing and shipping address, credit card or payment information and any other information you choose to provide. In some cases, we may also collect information you provide about others, such as if you decide to purchase and ship products to friends or family. We will use this information solely to fulfill your requests and will not send marketing communications to these individuals, unless they separately opt-in to receive communications from us. Information We Collect Automatically When you access or use our Services or otherwise interact with us, we automatically collect information about you and we may associate it with information that you provide directly to us. For example, we may collect: Information We Collect From Other Sources We may also receive information about you from other sources and link or combine that with information we collect about you. We may use information about you for various purposes, including to: Chihuly is based in the United States and the information we collect is governed by U.S. law (if you are located in the EU and subject to the GDPR, please see the GDPR sections below). Otherwise, by accessing or using our Services or otherwise providing information to us, you consent to the processing and transfer of information in and to the U.S. and other countries, where you may not have the same rights as you do under local law. Where this is the case, we will take appropriate measures to protect information about you in accordance with this Privacy Policy. Effective May 25, 2018, the European Union (EU) data protection law, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), gives individuals in the EU more control over how their data is used and places certain obligations on businesses that process that data. We’ve taken the necessary steps to comply with this regulation including identifying our data processors, what information we collect, how it’s used, where its stored, how it can be accessed, and who controls it. We’ve also updated our Privacy Policy and created internal policies around data retention and compliance with GDPR requests. For more information about GDPR and how it may affect you, please visit https://gdpr-info.eu/. Rights of EU Data Subjects Under the GDPR, individuals in the EU have certain rights with respect to their personally identifiable information. These rights include: Data Protection Officer Contact To exercise your rights under the GDPR or make a related request, please contact our data protection officer at [email protected]. We may share information about you as follows or as otherwise described in this Privacy Policy: We may also share aggregated or de-identified information, which cannot reasonably be used to identify you. However, Chihuly does not sell any personal information or user data to third parties. Our Services may offer social sharing features and other integrated tools. Your use of such features enables the sharing of information with your friends or the public, depending on the settings you establish with the entity that provides the social sharing feature. For more information about the purpose and scope of data collection and processing in connection with social sharing features, please visit the privacy policies of the entities that provide these features. We may allow others to serve advertisements on our behalf across the Internet and to provide analytics services. These entities may use cookies, web beacons and other technologies to collect information about your use of the Services and other websites, including your IP address, web browser, pages viewed, time spent on pages, links clicked and conversion information. This information may be used by Chihuly and others to, among other things, analyze and track data, determine the popularity of certain content, deliver advertising and content targeted to your interests on our Services and other websites and better understand your online activity. For more information about interest-based ads, or to opt out of having your web browsing information used for behavioral advertising purposes, please visit www.aboutads.info/choices. Chihuly takes reasonable measures to help protect information about you from loss, theft, misuse and unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration and destruction. Account Information You may update, correct or delete information about you at any time by logging into your account and updating your profile information or by emailing us at [email protected]. If you wish to delete your account or any personal information that may have been collected, please email us at [email protected], but note that we may retain certain information about you for legitimate business purposes or as required by law. You may also request information about what categories and what specific pieces of personal information has been collected by contacting us. Cookies? Most web browsers are set to accept cookies by default. If you prefer, you can usually choose to set your browser to remove or reject browser cookies. For more information about these controls, visit your browser or device’s help manual or visit www.allaboutcookies.org. Please note that if you choose to remove or reject cookies, this could affect the availability and functionality of our Services. Promotional Communications from Chihuly? You may opt out of receiving promotional communications from us at any time by following the instructions in those communications. If you opt out, we may still send you non-promotional communications, such as those about your account or our ongoing business relations. If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, please contact us at [email protected]. Last Updated January 22, 2019. Stay connected. Join our list For assistance 206.781.8707 For assistance 206.781.8707 © 2019 Chihuly, Inc. All rights reserved. USA