We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes May the cat be with you You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo Crank phone calls that was so fun! My daughter dialed a number when she was 1. She held our home phone between her chin and shoulder, formed words not in the English dictionary, and on the other end was Mohinder. He was telling her about his day. People can be awesome! That is awesome Denise. "Mohhinder "telling her about his day" - precious! I can crank phone calls like how i crank my 90’s Something about it just ain’t the same You dont answer a phone in retail, do you? You are right on that one it's easy to get away with no caller id like at house. You can definitely still do that. Just put *67 before you type the number  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.