Arsenal and Netherlands striker Vivianne Miedema on taking inspiration from Robin van Persie, chatting football with Virgil van Dijk and enjoying success with the national team. Manchester City return to Champions League action with high expectations, as Arsenal re-enter the competition for the first time in five years. Glasgow City win 1-0 away to Chertanovo Moscow in the Women's Champions League last 32, but Hibernian are eased aside 4-1 at home to Slavia Prague. Setting up a business, watching England as a fan and predicting good things from Arsenal in Europe - Karen Carney on life after retirement and the Women's Champions League. Watch four great goals from the opening weekend of the Women's Super League as Manchester City and Arsenal start their season with victories. Six BBC Sport pundits predict who will win the Women's Super League and pick their top four. Try our pre-season quiz to see if you can guess the player, as the new Women's Super League campaign starts on Saturday. Who has signed Women's World Cup stars and who has a new ground? It's your club-by-club guide to the 2019-20 WSL season. Manchester United head coach Casey Stoney joins Nick Bright to preview the Women's Super League season. France 2019 has given women's football a huge opportunity, but there is much to do to capitalise on it, writes Dan Roan. Megan Rapinoe has long been a key figure in the United States but has been the outright star of this Women's World Cup on and off the pitch, writes Caroline Chapman. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you England stars Nikita Parris and Karen Carney go head-to-head in our challenge to see who's got the best skills and celebration. A girls hockey team entered the FA People's Cup for a bit of fun, but ended up winning their category. 'England will plan racism response' F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France Bayliss reflects on time with England I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad