Ready to Visit? Schedule a Campus Visit.  Prospective students who are entering as freshmen and have not yet applied to UMass Amherst are encouraged to attend an Admissions information session prior to taking a tour. These sessions are conducted by an Admissions representative, last about 45 minutes, and are specific to the freshman application process. They're a great way to learn more about the entire application and review processes. Connect with a transfer counselor! If you have questions about how your credits will transfer or what the admissions process looks like, you can request an advising appointment to meet one-on-one with a counselor. To schedule an appointment, please fill out the On-Campus Transfer Appointment Request Form. You can also call (413) 545-0222 or email mail@admissions.umass.edu with questions. The transfer counselors are available to meet on most Friday afternoons between 1:00PM-4:00PM for walk-in appointments and throughout the week by appointment. They are located in the Whitmore Administration Building. Please note that counselors will not be available on September 20th, 2019. . Student-led walking tours are one of the best ways to become better acquainted with our campus. Our student tour guides fill the tours with facts and personal stories, providing an overview of academic and student life at UMass Amherst. During the 90-minute tour, you'll see the Campus Center, Student Union, Du Bois Library, a model dorm room, Recreation Center, Commonwealth Honors College, and an academic building. Please be aware that these are general tours and not specific to any particular major. With a 1,400 acre campus and 90-plus majors, we can't show or tell you everything that UMass Amherst has to offer, but our tour guides can answer most questions and are available to give you directions or contact information for any department at the conclusion of the tour. Tours originate from the Murray D. Lincoln Campus Center located at 1 Campus Way, Amherst, MA 01003. Please note that these walking tours cover about a mile, rain or shine, so be prepared for New England weather! Many departments across campus offer prospective students and their families opportunities to visit and learn more about their departmental offerings. We encourage students to reach out to the department they are interested in by following the link below. *Please note: The Hadley Farm is not open to the public without making an appointment. Please click link below for more information.*  Please join us as we welcome all prospective students and their families to learn more about the Commonwealth's Flagship Campus. Students and families will have an opportunity to tour our beautiful campus, connect with representatives from Admissions, and learn more about the UMass Amherst experience. Guests can park in the Campus Center Parking Garage. The GPS address for the Garage is 1 Campus Center Way, Amherst, MA 01003 and the cost is $1.50 per hour. To allow sufficient time to park and check-in, arrive at least 15 minutes prior to your first scheduled event. Your check-in location will differ depending on the time and day of your event(s). The location and address was sent to you via your confirmation email. If you have any further questions feel free to call us at 413-545-0306. *Please note, if you are using "Waze" to direct you to the Campus Center, it will not bring you to the correct location. Please use a different navigation source.* Schedule a Campus Visit here.  Schedule a Campus Visit Email us or call 413-545-0306 If you are interested in a group tour for your school or organization with 10 or more people, please email us or call 413-545-1616. This email and phone number are for special tour groups only. Those interested in the regular campus tours should call 413-545-0306. We require at least two weeks advanced notice to schedule a group tour. Due to seasonal demands, we may not be able to accommodate your first-choice tour date, but we'll work with you to make the best of your UMass Amherst campus visit. ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact