Jump to navigation At Isenberg, our bright students build bright futures. Earn your degree on our flagship campus in the vibrant town of Amherst. The Isenberg experience prepares our graduates to arrive in the job market with the skills and experience necessary to excel in their professions. Finance is the study of money and its relation to time and risk. Finance majors at Isenberg learn how to raise debt and equity capital, evaluate profitability and riskiness of projects, value small businesses and large corporations, and make traditional and alternative investments in global financial markets. The expansive and rigorous curriculum with an honors capstone sequence provides many choices and opportunities for students to specialize in one or more of four different tracks: Corporate Finance, Financial Analyst, Risk Management, and Alternative Investments.  This track focuses on raising capital, investing in projects, and managing working capital. Course options include:   This track focuses in investments in traditional assets such as stocks and bonds. Academic Partner – CFA Course options include:   This track focuses on the risk management of financial institutions, such as large banks and insurance companies. Course options include:   This track focuses on alternative investments such as hedge funds, commodities, financial derivatives, real estate, and private equity. Academic Partner – CAIA Course options include:   Provides students with an increased opportunity to study and become involved with commercial real estate, encourages real estate entrepreneurship, develops industry resources, and hopes to facilitate Isenberg students obtaining internships and career opportunities in real estate. Learn more  Isenberg’s finance department simulates the real-world challenges you’ll face on the job so you’ll be ready to tackle any complex issue thrown your way. Internships at firms like JP Morgan, State Street, Merrill Lynch, Fidelity Investments, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, John Hancock, BNY-Melon and numerous other banks and companies are a key experiential learning component of the finance undergraduate program at Isenberg. These highly sought after internships expose our students to the real world issues and challenges. Close to three quarters of finance students graduate with at least one internship experience and more than one third graduate with two internship experiences. Finance students at Isenberg use Bloomberg terminals to seamlessly access a wealth of real-time and historical data on financial instruments such as stocks, bonds, currencies, and derivatives, and financial institutions such as banks, hedge funds, mutual funds, and pension funds. Donated by Babson Capital, the twelve Bloomberg terminals are a critical resource for the four student-run clubs: The Finance Society, The Investment Club, The Minuteman Equity Fund, and The Minuteman Fixed Income Fund. Finance students at Isenberg learn real world money management skills by managing the student-run Minutemen family of funds. Students invest in equities though the Minutemen Equity Fund (MEF), and in bonds and fixed income ETFs through the Minutemen Fixed Income Fund (MFIF). Another fund, the Minutemen Alternative Investments Fund (MFAF) is planned to be launched next year. Membership in the Minutemen funds is by-invite only. Fund activities include, fund administration, making investments, doing peer interviews, running student-run courses in stock and bond selection, writing analyst reports on selected stocks and bonds, and producing periodic newsletters in equities and fixed income. Finance is a field of study within the Bachelor of Business Administration degree at Isenberg School of Management. To meet the graduation requirements for a BBA degree, every Finance major must complete the following coursework: A finance degree from Isenberg employs a rigorous and balanced curriculum to serve the needs of the financial industry. The curriculum is guided though our academic partnerships with the leading professional designations such as the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) and the Chartered Alternative Investments Analyst (CAIA). Here’s a sample of finance electives:  We encourage our students to get involved with industry now! There are many finance-related organizations that students can turn to for learning and networking.  The CAIA Association is the world leader in alternative investment education. With alternatives currently representing $10 trillion in assets... Anyone may call him or herself a "financial planner," but only those who have fulfilled the certification and renewal requirements of the CFP... The CFA® Program bridges industry practice, investment theory, and ethical and professional standards to provide investment analysis and... The Global Association of Risk Professionals (GARP) is a not-for-profit organization and the only globally recognized membership association for... Finance majors take positions in a broad spectrum of industries, including banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, real estate developers, and accounting firms. Here are just some of the roles our graduates have earned: You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.