If something has just happened to you or you are needing assistance with something from your past, you are not alone. CWC can support you. Call our trained counselors anytime of the day or night. Your call is confidential. It’s hard to know what to do, how to feel, or what your options are after a sexual assault. How you might be feeling Further Information For: The CWC Hotline provides 24 hours, 7 days/week free and confidential support services to people of all genders and gender identities who experience rape; sexual assault; childhood sexual abuse; stalking; domestic violence; emotional, psychological and verbal abuse including the friends and families of those affected. Services are available to community members, other Five College students, staff and faculty. Learn more about what CWC Crisis Services can offer you If you were sexually assaulted within the last 5 days you have these immediate choices: DNA evidence must be collected within five days of an assault. Medical assistance can be accessed at any time. You do not need to report to the police in order to have this exam. To obtain a free sexual assault exam (SANE kit) you can go to: Emergency room services are confidential. When someone reports a rape at Emergency room services they are given the option to speak with a Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) who is specially qualified to complete an Evidence Collection Kit (SANE Kit) with the survivor. These exams are always free.  Our confidential advocates can help you determine what you would like to do. You can report a sexual assault directly to Amherst or Northampton Police Departments. There you can speak with a Civilian Advocate, a confidential resource that can review options before reporting. A detective will take a statement/report from the survivor about what happened and send the report to the District Attorney's office who would decide if charges could be pressed. We are located on the 2nd floor of New Africa House at UMass Amherst.   New Africa House, 180 Infirmary Way, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003 Phone: (413) 545-0883 - Email: cwc@umass.edu - 24-Crisis Hotline (Sexual Assault / Rape): (413) 545-0800/Toll Free (888) 337-0800 ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact