Bamboo (Phyllostachys viridis 'Robert Young') and Japanese-style arched bridge in the Culberson Asiatic Arboretum. Photo by Rick Fisher. Children enjoy some quiet time together at the Virtue Peace Pond in the Doris Duke Center Gardens. Photo by Orla Swift Children walk through the Culberson Asiatic Arboretum. Photo by Jessica Lobdell Photography. Gardens volunteer John Wyman talks about the plants in the Virtue Peace Pond in the Doris Duke Center Gardens. Family members explore the Charlotte Brody Discovery Garden together. Photo by Megan Morr / Duke Photography.  Children learn about the importance of bees in the Charlotte Brody Discovery Garden. Photo by Orla Swift.  A couple poses for an engagement photo in the Terrace Gardens. Photo by Sweet Life Photography. A traditional Japanese Tea Gathering in the Durham-Toyama Sister Cities Japanese Pavilion. Photo by Jon Gardiner / Duke Photography. A young visitor and her aunt enjoy a photo trek through Duke Gardens. Photo by Orla Swift. Visitors enjoy photographing the flower displays in the Terrace Gardens. Photo by Orla Swift. Edwin F. Steffek Jr. Bridge and Fern Grotto in the H.L. Blomquist Garden of Native Plants. Photo by Robert Ayers. The historic Roney Fountain in the Mary Duke Biddle Rose Garden. Photo by Dana Jo Photography. Sarah P. Duke Gardens  Learn more about Duke Gardens in our 56-page souvenir photo book. More than 400,000 visitors from all over the world visit Sarah P. Duke Gardens annually, enjoying its 55 acres of specialized gardens in the heart of Duke University. Admission is free, and we are open from 8 a.m. to dusk 365 days a year. Our address is 420 Anderson St., Durham, NC, 27708. Please see our "visit" page for information about parking, directions, accessibility and other topics. Please see our "rentals" link to plan your meeting or special event at Duke Gardens. We hope you will also consider coming to a class or public event at Duke Gardens. You can learn about opportunities on our education and public programs page. And if you would like to join our volunteers who help in myriad ways at the Gardens, please check out our volunteer page. Please see our Awards & Honors page to learn more about the world-class horticulture and programs at Duke Gardens. Duke Gardens receives approximately half of its operating budget from Duke University. The rest comes from people like you, who value all that the Gardens has to offer to the Duke and Triangle community, and to visitors from around the world. We thank you for your appreciation and support. If you're interested in donating to Duke Gardens, please see our Friends of Duke Gardens page. Thank you! Duke Gardens Staff Board of Advisors 