Jump to navigation Basic information about your UMass Amherst NetID and password is provided below. Your NetID serves as the primary user name for your IT Account and gives you access to the campus network, SPIRE, email and much, much more. Note: Some faculty and staff have Subsidiary Accounts. These accounts are typically used to access course Web sites (a.k.a. Course Accounts) or for other academic or administrative projects. The user name for this type of account is not your IT Account NetID. Your NetID is the user name associated with your primary UMass Amherst Account. Applicants: We will email you your NetID and a temporary password. On the SPIRE Logon page, under IT Accounts (right side of the page), click Password & NetID Help. Students, Faculty & Staff: Come to the IT Help Center (A109, LGRC Lowrise, M - F, 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m.) or the Learning Commons Technical Support Desk with extended hours (Lower level of W.E.B. Du Bois Library) or contact the IT Help Center. Don't forget your UCard! Your NetID password provides access to your personal information such as your email, your SPIRE account, or files stored on Box. To protect your personal information, please do not share your NetID password with anyone. Store a word or phrase to help jog your memory if you can't remember your password. To create a password reminder:  Keep your online identity safe. Change your password twice a year. Note: Google Apps users need to use Application-Specific Passwords for mobile devices and email software, so changing your NetID password won't affect those passwords. If you are changing your password for Web login, use the instructions below. Note: If you have administrative access to the Human Resources system, you are required to change your NetID password every 180 days. more... Note: If you are an Exchange Email and Calendar user and are in the CAMPUS Domain, changing your password in SPIRE will also change your IT Active Directory/Exchange account password. For questions, please email Exchange Help.   © University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact