Jump to navigation Residential Life is responsible for all on-campus housing assignments for Stockbridge School of Agriculture students. Residential Life offers an on-campus living experience that supports students’ learning, personal growth, and academic achievement. We foster inclusive communities, create social and educational opportunities, and provide safe and well-maintained residences. All first-year students are required to live on campus. Exceptions to this policy are married students, veterans of the U.S. Armed Services, members of fraternities and sororities who have been authorized to reside in their respective houses, and students who live in and commute from the home of their parent(s) or guardian(s) within a 40-mile radius of the campus. The Alpha Tau Gamma fraternity is considered an alternative to on-campus housing for students who have pledged to be members of the fraternity. When you choose to live in a First Year Hall, everyone around you has similar experiences and you all jump into the adventure together. You will find easier ways to get involved with campus activities, to get to know faculty, and to find leadership opportunities. You will live in a community where collaboration and mutual support leads to academic success. You will also have access to the resources you need when you hit an academic or personal challenge or you just need a little advice, and you will become a pro at navigating university life. To learn more, visit the Residential First Year Experience website. Students who cancel their housing assignment or withdraw from the university during the first five weeks of the semester are eligible for a rent refund. The refund is prorated based on the date the student checks out of the residence hall room. Students who cancel or withdraw during the first five weeks are also subject to the cancellation fee schedule, which is also prorated to the corresponding week the cancellation is made. To learn more, visit Residential Life Rates & Fees. Fill out our contact form or call one of our advisors at 413-545-2222 to ask your questions, schedule a tour, or get more information! ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact 