A Tweet that you share publicly with your followers is known as a Retweet. This is a great way to pass along news and interesting discoveries on Twitter. You have the option to add your own comments and/or media before Retweeting. When using Twitter's Retweet icon, your Retweet or Retweet with comment will reference the Tweet you are sharing. When someone replies to your Retweet with comment, the author of the original Tweet will not be automatically added to the conversation. If you want to include the author of the original Tweet, you will need to mention their username. In addition to sharing other’s Tweets on Twitter, with your own Tweet you can Retweet or Retweet with comment. This function is particularly useful when you want to re-post one of your older Tweets because it is relevant again, or Retweet your replies to other people when you want to make sure all of your followers see it. From the Tweet you’d like to share: The Tweet will then be shared with all of your followers as a Retweet. From the Tweet you’d like to share: The Tweet will then be shared with all of your followers as a Retweet. Hover over the Tweet you'd like to share: The Tweet will then be shared with all of your followers as a Retweet. Find the Retweet you’d like to undo: Find the Retweet you’d like to undo: Find the Retweet you’d like to undo: Go to the Tweet you’d like to share: The Tweet will then be shared with your followers as a Retweet with comment. Go to the Tweet you’d like to share: The Tweet will then be shared with your followers as a Retweet with comment. Hover over the Tweet you'd like to share: The Tweet will then be shared with your followers as a Retweet with comment. Note: The original Tweet in your Retweet with comment does not count towards the character limit. Undoing a Retweet with comment will remove it from other timelines, however it may still appear on mobile devices displaying cached timelines or in cross-postings to third-party sites. By using Twitter’s services you agree to our Cookies Use. We use cookies for purposes including analytics, personalisation, and ads.