Jump to navigation The Isenberg Online MBA is the perfect program for professionals looking to be leaders in their industry. Combining the quality curriculum of our on-campus Masters of Business Administration program with the flexibility of the online platform, the Online MBA provides quality learning tailored to the student's schedule and timetable. Participants can choose to complete their MBA 100% online, or, if they are located in the Massachusetts area, can take classes online and in-person at one of our three satellite campus locations: Springfield, Shrewsbury, and Boston. Join the more than 1200 professionals, many with more than 10 years work experience, currently enrolled in the program. Get started today. Fully accredited by the AACSB, the Isenberg Online MBA is flexible and convenient without sacrificing intellectual challenge and academic rigor.  Our program is highly adaptable to your needs and schedule, and allows you to earn your degree without putting your life on hold. We even offer students the option to take up to two courses (6 credits) before applying to the MBA or while you work to complete your application. We offer an unparalleled educational experience—superior instruction from expert faculty and an innovative, flexible learning format.   Students in our MBA program can pursue a specialized degree with a focus in:   We understand what today’s complex business environment requires of our graduates. Our online students complete the same innovative and rigorous curriculum as our on-campus students. We provide a superior education that gives students the cutting-edge knowledge and skills they need to succeed.   Our dedicated, approachable faculty offer expertise in their field and bring extensive experience to the classroom. Our outstanding advising center, with more than 10 years of experience in online education, supports students throughout their tenure at Isenberg.   Our online students bring a wealth of backgrounds, experience, and passion to our program. Representing all 50 states and numerous foreign countries, our students are at varied stages of their professional careers, and include doctors, entrepreneurs, attorneys, scientists, CFOs, and marketing managers. One commonality: our students are committed to driving their careers forward.  The classroom is virtual. The connections are real. Join us online or at a satellite Massachusetts campus. Courses have the same curriculum and accomplished faculty as residential classes—the difference lies in the freedom and convenience that the online and satellite environments offer our students. The Isenberg MBA offers many different learning opportunities. You can choose to complete your MBA 100% online, or if you are in the Massachusetts area, you can choose to take classes online and in-person at one of our three satellite campus locations. With innovative technology and no residential requirement, you can complete your degree 100% online anywhere—from early mornings at your kitchen table, to late nights at your office, to stolen moments during an international business trip. We've been perfecting online education for over a decade, and offer an exceptional education that fits the needs of working professionals. Isenberg’s Online MBA with in-person option offers the best of both worlds—flexible online classes and face-to-face exposure to material, faculty and colleagues. Choose between taking classes online and in-person at one of our satellite campus locations in Massachusetts: Boston, Shrewsbury, or Springfield. With our flexible options, you can take one class online while taking a second class at a satellite location. The choice is yours! Focus Areas equip you with the knowledge and skills in an interest area to propel you into the MBA-level job you desire upon graduation. View all Focus Areas  The Isenberg MBA with a Focus in Business Analytics offers a mix of general business and analytic elective courses to meet your specific educational goals. Business analytics is a crucial tool to guide business operations towards achieving strategic objectives in any industry, from healthcare to finance and retail.   The Isenberg MBA with a Focus in Entrepreneurship offers a mix of general business and entrepreneurship elective courses to meet your specific educational goals. This MBA is ideal for individuals interested in launching a business, leading a unit within a larger enterprise, or in revitalizing an established organization.    The Isenberg MBA with a Focus in Finance offers a mix of general business and finance elective courses to meet your specific educational goals. This MBA is ideal for individuals interested in a career in investment banking, corporate finance, venture capital, or consulting.   In partnership with the UMass School of Public Health, the Isenberg MBA with a Focus in Healthcare Administration is ideal for healthcare professionals seeking a promotion in the industry or looking to transition into the rapidly growing field of healthcare administration.   The MBA with a Focus in Marketing provides the skills and business knowledge that are necessary to successfully understand the changing global economy, anticipate consumer needs, translate those needs into products and services, and create marketing campaigns.  Isenberg’s partnership program provides special financial and academic benefits for those pursuing an Isenberg online degree. Whether you’re considering the Isenberg Online MBA program or want to take a stand-alone course that will advance your expertise, we offer you the opportunity for exploration and growth. For students considering their MBA with Isenberg, this allows you to make deliberate decisions about your future while applying what you learn to your current career For students who want to increase their expertise and value in just one or two semesters, this option allows you to take graduate classes that directly apply to your profession You have the option to take two classes (6 credits) before applying for your MBA or while your application is being processed. Regular tuition and fees apply. Once you decide that the Isenberg Online MBA program is right for you, classes will be transferred to your graduate record if you have taken them within three years of acceptance and earned a grade of B or better. To learn more and browse available classes visit our try a class information page You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.