The American footballer denies the accusation, saying that any sexual interaction was consensual. Mark Chapman, Osi Umenyiora and Jason Bell discuss the Dallas Cowboys and their new offensive coordinator, Kellen Moore in NFL This Week. Mark Chapman is joined by Osi Umenyiora and Jason Bell to review the first round of fixtures in the 2019 NFL season. The NFL returns in style as Patrick Mahomes, Tom Brady and Lamar Jackson all make it into plays of the week. Follow the NFL season on the BBC with weekly TV programmes, online highlights and live text commentaries, plus live coverage of the London Series and the 54th Super Bowl. With the NFL Show returning this Sunday for the 2019-20 season, we take a look back at last year's best moments from Mark Chapman, Osi Umenyiora and Jason Bell. In a column for BBC Sport, ex-rugby player turned NFL hopeful Christian Wade talks dream debuts and trying to make the cut with the Buffalo Bills. Only the 1972 Miami Dolphins have recorded a 'perfect' NFL season. Working part-time, with a $100 quarterback, this is how they did it. 'What kind of fruit would you be? Is your mother a prostitute?' The colourful, controversial inquisition that faces NFL draft prospects. BBC Sport meets the Carolina Panthers' Efe Obada, the British NFL star who was abandoned on London's streets at the age of 10. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you Are you an NFL rookie? If so, watch our guide to the key rules, the player positions and the ultimate aim of the game. How to get into American football – a sport for all shapes and sizes that requires both mental and physical skills. 'England will plan racism response' F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France Bayliss reflects on time with England I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad