Weather forecasts are on phones, television, computers...we need them to plan our day or simply to know what to wear. They provide essential information for planting and harvesting crop, for selecting routes over land, sea and air, for building roads and infrastructure, for making preparations against impending natural hazards, and for much more. WMO coordinates the worldwide efforts that are prerequisite for the production of accurate and timely weather forecasts. Weather forecasts require observations of our environment around the clock and around the world. The bulk of those observations are carried out by National Meteorological Services as part of the WMO World Weather Watch, which networks the observing stations to national, regional and global weather and climate prediction centres 24 hours a day in real-time. The World Weather Watch collects meteorological, climatological, hydrological and oceanographic data from over 15 satellites, 100 moored buoys, 600 drifting buoys, 3 000 aircraft, 7 300 ships and some 10 000 land-based observation stations. This data has to be comparable and up to standards in order to be usable by the prediction centres in the numerical weather prediction models that produce daily weather forecasts and early warnings for natural hazards such as hurricanes. Thus, the World Weather Watch also produces the standards for measurement of the data collected. But national, regional and global weather and climate prediction centres produce much more than your daily forecast. Their powerful computers use mathematical models – numerical weather prediction models – based on physical laws to produce charts, digital products, weather and air-quality forecasts, climate predictions, risk assessments and early warning services. Meteorological satellites broadcast this real-time weather information several times a day to over 1 000 locations. In this way, WMO Members are enabled to provide reliable and effective weather services to protect lives and property as well as for the general welfare and well-being of their populations. Weather knows no national boundaries and the work carried out by meteorologists, often behind the scenes for our benefit and safety, is very much a team effort. The WMO provides official weather observations, weather forecasts and climatological information from the National Meteorological and Hydrological Services of Members. One of the first attempts to forecast the weather using calculations was by Lewis Fry Richardson in 1922. He used a variety of primitive equations to calculate, by hand, a 6-hour forecast for the state of the atmosphere over two points in central Europe. Unfortunately, it took him more than six weeks to calculate the forecast. Since then, Numerical Weather Prediction has made tremendous advances thanks to more and better assimilated observations – weather data is collected 24 hours a day, 365 days a year from weather satellites, Doppler radar, weather stations, weather balloons, aircraft, ships and other sources – higher computing power and progress in our understanding of dynamics and physics. These advances have led to increasingly skilful weather forecasting. On the global scale, we can today predict out to five days ahead as accurately as we could do for two days 20 years ago. This means society has much more advance warning of weather hazards than before, permitting people to prepare and, thereby, limit the loss of lives and property. Expectations are high for even greater advances in the years to come. Consequently, the emphasis in operational meteorology has shifted towards the implementation of increasingly sophisticated and diverse numerical models and applications in order to serve an ever-increasing variety of users. Operational Numerical Weather Prediction systems generally provide an accurate indication of developing weather events from hours to days ahead. They are, therefore, one of the most relevant components of routine and severe weather forecasting and warnings at National Meteorological and Hydrological Services. WMO enables worldwide use of timely, reliable and accurate Numerical Weather Prediction products and services in all time-scales for applications related to weather, climate, water and environment. The Global Data-processing and Forecasting System offers one example of how WMO achieves this. The scientific goal of achieving seamless predictions – the integration of weather and climate, between the science and users and between nations on observing the atmosphere – is an important objective for the next decade. Seamless weather forecasts and climate predictions could evolve towards seamless weather-climate-impacts forecasting. Increasingly sophisticated numerical models will incorporate more and more of the Earth system’s components and processes. In addition to the atmosphere and oceans, they will integrate increasingly accurate information on topography, land-use change, vegetation, rivers, lakes, clouds and socio-economic trends to provide user-specific decision-support services that will touch almost every part of our lives. The main scientific challenges for future global Numerical Weather Prediction relate to the recent advancements in physical process parameterization, analysis and forecast uncertainty formulation through ensembles, and the provision of physically consistent initial conditions for forecasts using observations. Regarding physical parameterizations, the challenge is to determine whether running global models at a one kilometre scale also eliminates all convection-related uncertainties and produces a fundamental stepping stone for reducing model biases and enhancing predictive skill at all forecast ranges. As these high resolutions are not yet in achievable, convection parameterizations will remain crucial for global weather and climate modelling for the next decade and progress in this area will require joint efforts from the weather and climate communities. More observation of physical processes will be needed because of the coupled modelling of the atmosphere with ocean, land surface and sea-ice models, some of which are already in operational use today. Each coupled model has its own characteristic space and time scales. Coupled modelling is most beneficial beyond the 3–7 day range as ocean, sea-ice and land surface processes are relatively slow and mostly affect longer-term system memory. However, there are examples where the coupling of models also affects the short range: for example, when oceanic upwelling in the wake of slowly moving tropical cyclones affects their intensity or where rain- fall over land is strongly constrained by surface evaporation and thus soil moisture. In such a context, coupled data assimilation will become critical for the initialization of the future coupled models. This assimilation will need to include atmospheric composition – aerosols, trace gases, etc – as well as ocean, land surfaces and sea-ice observations. Aerosols and trace gases are important to forecast in their own right because of their impacts on air quality. However, as atmospheric constituents they directly affect radiative heating. Aerosols can also act as condensation nuclei in cloud formation and on the heterogeneous chemistry that occurs at the surface of polar stratospheric clouds, accelerating ozone destruction. An associated challenge from adding more physical and chemical processes to models is that initial conditions for these constituents are also required and thus more and complex observations need to be assimilated. Using more of the existing and new observations and advances in data assimilation pose more scientific challenges for Numerical Weather Prediction. Beyond the maintenance of the backbone satellite and ground-based observing systems that measure vertical profiles of temperature, moisture, clouds and near-surface weather, fundamental observables are missing. An example is the direct observation of upper-level wind with Doppler-radar technology. However, the existing backbone observations also need to be provided by a robust and resilient observing system, which requires substantial international investment and coordination (for more details The quiet revolution of numerical weather prediction, Nature, volume 525, Issue 7567, pages 47–55, published 2 September 2015). Making model codes more scalable is among the top priorities in weather and climate prediction for the next 10 years and beyond. Computational efficiency will be the number one limiting factor for future high-resolution Earth system modelling in the future. The computing challenge is enhanced by the requirements for data distribution and archiving. While data growth appears slower than computer growth exabyte data production may actually be reached earlier than exaflop computing. The growing complexity and concurrent evolution of both applications and computer systems also have fundamental implications on the design of future workflows. They need to be scalable themselves and need to account for distributed multi-disciplinary tasks and shared components. They also need to be resilient and dynamically account for the occasional hardware failures that are inevitable when deploying systems with one million processors. These challenges have been recognized by weather and climate prediction centres as well as funding agencies. For frequently asked questions on Weather, visit our FAQs - Weather page.   Offering operationally reliable, surface-based and space-based subsystems with observing facilities on land, at sea, in the air and in outer space in support of the World Weather Watch... Research activities focusing on high-impact weather – from basic research in the academic community to operational contributions. Since 2002, there have been a number of initiatives and accomplishments having a significant impact on the World Weather Watch. Indeed, not since the 1960s has there been so much emphasis and worldwide attention on the knowledge of the environment … Coordinating the global system of telecommunication facilities and arrangements for the rapid collection, exchange and distribution of observations and processed information within the framework of the World Weather... Severe Weather Forecasting capabilities strengthen the National Hydrological and Meteorological Services’ (NMHSs) ability to forecast severe weather and provide decision makers and other users with more effective, diverse,... Enabling worldwide use of timely, reliable and accurate Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) products and services in all time-scales for applications related to weather, climate, water and environment.... © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)