Jump to navigation Interim Dean Tom Moliterno recently announced the first two recipients of the new Isenberg Dean’s Faculty Fellowships for 2019: Senior Lecturer Michele Burch, OIM, and Professor of Organization Studies Linda Smircich, Management. “This fellowship provides a new and unique way for the dean to recognize one or two faculty members each year who truly exemplify the values that are so important to our institution’s success: Commitment to the student experience, dedicated institution building, and thought-leadership through research,” Moliterno said. The Fellows will receive a cash award and a one-course release, along with holding the title of Dean’s Faculty Fellow for the year. Michele Burch is a Senior Lecturer in the OIM Department, where she is widely recognized as a master teacher. Her students give her ratings that are among the highest achieved in the department, as well as the School … and this for a required 301 class! Routine comments in her evaluations include statements like: “One of the best classes and professors I have taken,” “Professor Burch conducted a great learning environment,” and “She is a great lecturer, fun, knowledgeable, and applies concepts to real life examples.” One of Isenberg’s own (MBA ’96; PhD ’08), Michele participates actively in the life of the institution, where she routinely goes above and beyond on behalf of the students and the school. In her role as faculty advisor for the OIM club, Dr. Burch spends considerable time working with club officers to set meeting agendas and schedule trips and case competitions—she spares no effort in making the club a valuable experience for students. In addition, she has spent time on many high-impact service activities including the Department Curriculum Committee and a recent faculty search committee. Linda Smircich is a Professor of Organization Studies in the Management Department and has been a valued member of the faculty since 1982. Dr. Smircich is a groundbreaking researcher who is widely recognized as a thought leader in the area of cultural and feminist perspectives on organization and management. She authored the foundational research article on the significance of culture for organizational analysis, which has over 6,000 citations. Overall, Linda has more than 40 refereed journal articles, book reviews, and book chapters, all of which since 1988 have been coauthored with her Isenberg colleague, Management Professor Marta Calás. Professor Smircich, along with Professor Calás and colleagues from the U.K., was part of the founding editorial team of the interdisciplinary scholarly journal, Organization. At Isenberg, Dr. Smircich has also demonstrated a strong commitment to student learning on all levels. In addition to receiving the College Teaching Award in 2009, she has taught successfully at the MBA level and chaired nine doctoral dissertations. She has also served as a committee member for 28 other doctoral students in the Isenberg School, across the university, and on other campuses. Her doctoral seminar on Qualitative Methods has the reputation of being one of the best PhD courses taught in the school. Over her distinguished career at Isenberg, Dr. Smircich has worked tirelessly on behalf of the institution, serving on and/or chairing numerous committees, as well as a term as Chair of the Management Department.     You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.