Even before students arrive for the fall semester, they can have a university-sized welcome at their fingertips. The My UMass app, a free download for iPhone and Android, provides fast, mobile access to campus events, calendars and notifications, as well as tools supporting health and well-being. And for the third year, the app includes Move-In, a paperless guide for students and their families who are heading to the campus’s 52 residence halls and 240 apartment units. It includes check-in information, maps and directions to the student’s dorm, a parking guide and more. My UMass, formerly Living at UMass, remains useful throughout the year, providing important information and deadlines from a variety of programs and resources. From campus sustainability, to personal safety, to emergency notifications and procedures, to campus recreation, to career services, to the PVTA bus schedule–they’re all available with My UMass. The HSCN guide displays programming on the cable channels included as part of on-campus housing, and students can learn the rules of UMass Amherst by reading the Code of Student Conduct and Residential Life Community Standards. Among the latest additions to the app, Facilities and Campus Services provides a service request form that lets students report problems–for example, a broken railing–and attach a photo if they wish. This is in addition to the i-Service feature for routine maintenance requests within residential life. Videos and social media feeds offer a virtual look into student life at UMass Amherst and ways to connect with community, engage with peers, build relationships and succeed academically. And the events listings sync with the phone’s calendar. My UMass welcomes users with a main screen showing six links: Current, Live, Learn, Engage, UMatter and Get Help. The options in each section are clear and easily accessed. Most-often used items like Move-In, Campus Pulse and Student Life Calendars, are found in a couple of categories. The goal is ease of access, not memory challenge. So far, the app has been downloaded more than 13,000 times.  