Jump to navigation Students choose Isenberg’s online option to complete an undergraduate degree because they want to advance in their professions or make a career change. Isenberg offers freedom without compromise—a flexible learning environment that delivers a superior AACSB-accredited education. With our affordable tuition and excellent aid opportunities, you can live within your means while investing in your future. Tuition Online business administration courses cost $475 per credit and online hospitality & tourism management courses are $425 per credit. Most business courses are three credits. The cost is the same for all students: in-state, out-of-state and international. Additional Fees There is a $47 registration fee per semester. Once accepted to the degree program, students pay a one-time University fee of $135. Financial Aid To apply for financial aid at UMass Amherst you only need to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, commonly called FAFSA. Students enrolled in at least six credits during a semester may be eligible for a subsidized or unsubsidized loan. Click here for more Information. Scholarships More than $450,000 in scholarship aid was awarded to Isenberg School students last year through the Isenberg Undergraduate Scholarship Program. The majority of these scholarships are generously funded by alumni, members of the Isenberg School community, and business friends. These scholarships are intended to recognize the hard work and academic success of our students, as well as assist them with the expense of their education. We encourage all current/matriculated undergraduate Isenberg School students who intend to return to UMass Amherst the following academic year to apply to the Isenberg Undergraduate Scholarship Program. Please note that scholarships are primarily awarded to sophomore and junior students. Please review our comprehensive scholarship guide for more information. When to Apply for the Isenberg Undergraduate Scholarship Program: The scholarship is generally available mid-August and due mid-October. Access the application here. We offer personalized advice on any aspect of the Isenberg Undergraduate online program, from applying to a program to choosing the right classes. Your success is our top priority, and we welcome the opportunity to talk with you. We are available 9:00 am – 4:30 pm EST Monday through Friday by phone, email, or schedule a convenient time to talk more about the program. Cheryl Hachey, Program Information Specialist 413.577.2760 ugradonline@isenberg.umass.edu Make an appointment Need assistance with this form? Need assistance with this form? Someone will be in touch with you within 48 hours.  When to Apply for Admissions Course Registration Generally Begins  UMass Amherst is a Yellow Ribbon Program participant. Learn more You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.