Jump to navigation The Isenberg Online MBA is the perfect program for professionals looking to be leaders in their industry. Combining the quality curriculum of our on-campus Masters of Business Administration program with the flexibility of the online platform, the Online MBA provides quality learning tailored to the student's schedule and timetable. Participants can choose to complete their MBA 100% online, or, if they are located in the Massachusetts area, can take classes online and in-person at one of our three satellite campus locations: Springfield, Shrewsbury, and Boston. Join the more than 1200 professionals, many with more than 10 years work experience, currently enrolled in the program. Get started today. The classroom is virtual. The connections are real. Join us online or at a satellite Massachusetts campus. Courses have the same curriculum and accomplished faculty as residential classes—the difference lies in the freedom and convenience that the online and satellite environments offer our students. The Isenberg MBA offers many different learning opportunities. You can choose to complete your MBA 100% online, or if you are in the Massachusetts area, you can choose to take classes online and in-person at one of our three satellite campus locations. With innovative technology and no residential requirement, you can complete your degree 100% online anywhere—from early mornings at your kitchen table, to late nights at your office, to stolen moments during an international business trip. We've been perfecting online education for over a decade, and offer an exceptional education that fits the needs of working professionals. Isenberg’s Online MBA with in-person option offers the best of both worlds—flexible online classes and face-to-face exposure to material, faculty and colleagues. Choose between taking classes online and in-person at one of our satellite campus locations in Massachusetts: Boston, Shrewsbury, or Springfield. With our flexible options, you can take one class online while taking a second class at a satellite location. The choice is yours! Our course planning tool is designed to help you make smart decisions about what classes to take and when to take them so you meet all of your program requirements View all current course offerings for the upcoming semester. Contact an advisor for additional questions about courses.  Browse All Courses We offer a broad range of electives that will enrich your education and help you specialize your degree.  Browse Elective Courses View the current course offereings at our satellite campus in Springfield, Shrewsbury and Boston.  Browse Satellite Courses Navigate your MBA career with a little direction from our Advising Tools. Prefer to talk to a real person? Our experienced advisors are ready to discuss your options. The Isenberg MBA curriculum includes 11 required core courses. But you have options: for example, take either Marketing Management or Services Marketing Management to satisfy the marketing requirement. Create a Degree Roadmap to see what class sequence our advisors recommend for you or keep track of your progress as your earn your degree by printing a degree requirements checklist. Navigate your MBA journey with a little direction from our Advising Center. Talk with our team of experienced advisors or explore your academic options via our interactive online tools. It’s all here to help you make the right choices about your MBA program.  Do you want to zoom through your MBA or take your time? Do you have experience in business? When do you want to start school? Take our finely tuned quiz to determine the program option that is best tailored to meet your schedule and goals. This comprehensive, personalized Roadmap will plot out the entire lifecycle of your academic career. Focus Areas equip you with the knowledge and skills in an interest area to propel you into the MBA-level job you desire upon graduation. View all Focus Areas  The Isenberg MBA with a Focus in Business Analytics offers a mix of general business and analytic elective courses to meet your specific educational goals. Business analytics is a crucial tool to guide business operations towards achieving strategic objectives in any industry, from healthcare to finance and retail.   The Isenberg MBA with a Focus in Entrepreneurship offers a mix of general business and entrepreneurship elective courses to meet your specific educational goals. This MBA is ideal for individuals interested in launching a business, leading a unit within a larger enterprise, or in revitalizing an established organization.    The Isenberg MBA with a Focus in Finance offers a mix of general business and finance elective courses to meet your specific educational goals. This MBA is ideal for individuals interested in a career in investment banking, corporate finance, venture capital, or consulting.   In partnership with the UMass School of Public Health, the Isenberg MBA with a Focus in Healthcare Administration is ideal for healthcare professionals seeking a promotion in the industry or looking to transition into the rapidly growing field of healthcare administration.   The MBA with a Focus in Marketing provides the skills and business knowledge that are necessary to successfully understand the changing global economy, anticipate consumer needs, translate those needs into products and services, and create marketing campaigns.  The Isenberg MBA faculty includes world-renowned researchers and consultants with impressive academic and professional experience. They use real-world business cases as catalysts for relevant, engaging discussions and offer guidance as you develop your career plan. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.