We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes It’s our job to #GoThere & tell the most difficult stories. Join us! For more breaking news updates follow @CNNBRK & Download our app ?http://cnn.com/apps You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. Senate negotiations over government funding for next year have already hit a snag, raising the prospect that lawmakers will need to pass a short-term continuing resolution in order to avert a federal government shutdown at the end of the monthhttps://cnn.it/34zRRJ6 Sure why shouldn’t #MoscowMitch hurt America some more thanks #Kentucky Most of Congress is past retirement age If there's another government shutdown because these politicians can not come to an agreement, all of their salaries should be frozen until such time as they work it out. If they aren't getting paid, maybe that will induce them to work to pass needed resolutions. #DoYourJob #MoscowMitchhttp://teespring.com/mosmt7 Moscow Mitch should be removed from office. He and his wife are crooks. Stealing from the people of this country is a crime! Where have we seen this before? I've seen this movie before. Zero ? Suprise! Not. THANK YOU TURTLE HEAD keep kicking the can down the road. debt's never getting paid back and is going to cause a calamity. This is not a surprise. Just defund ICE please @RepSwalwell Moscow Mitch, ought to be impeached for dereliction of duty... You are not negotiating. Just sitting there doing nothing. Why do Mitch face look's like it's melting?  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.