Jump to navigation The McCormack Center for Sport Research & Education creates innovative and scalable revenue-generating programs that help companies, students, managers, and academic institutions differentiate in the crowded sports marketplace. Tapping into our industry-leading alumni network and faculty cohort allows The Center to create value through collaboration, and further the educational mission of sport management as a discipline. Cultivating student learning at the intersection of street smarts-meets-classroom In 2017, the McCormack Center launched a custom case study collection designed to further enrich the educational experience of future sport leaders around the globe. 100+ institutions have adopted McCormack cases written by leading sport management faculty members and sport industry practitioners. Cases are now available for purchase at the McCormack Center Hub! We welcome cases from industry, and academia. Please email wnorton@isenberg.umass.edu to submit a potential case collaboration.  The McCormack Case Study Collection challenges students to think strategically across the broad spectrum of sport management. Case topics and industry collaborations include:      Hosted by the #1 ranked Sport Management Department across the globe, our Academy trains the future leaders of the sport industry.  The McCormack Sport Leadership Academy services driven and talented high school students from around the world, training students in practical sport business foundations and integrating insights from our world renowned faculty and industry-leading alumni. Programs range from 1-2 weeks, and can be hosted on UMass’ flagship campus in Amherst or the Mt. Ida campus in Newton. Students will learn about key segments of the highly competitive $60B sports industry and apply a management lens to strategic decision making in sports. In-class lectures, hands-on workshops and case competitions will be augmented by the presence of UMass alumni in sport leadership positions, and on-site visits to regional sport businesses such as Fenway Park, Patriot Place and The Basketball Hall of Fame.   Global partnerships fuel the McCormack Center’s advancement of commercial and educational best-practices in sport, while cultivating a diverse, multi-national examination of the broader sport business ecosystem.  The department offers online courses each semester to students enrolled in J.League Human Capital in Tokyo, which recruits and trains managerial talent for the professional sports industry in Japan. The partnership represents the Department’s first content collaboration with a professional league, and was completed in concert with Take Nakamura (’05 alumnus). Learn more McCormack Center Director Will Norton provided a June 2019 lecture series in Mumbai, to students enrolled in India On Track’s Global Institute for Sports Business.  You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.