The WMO Professor Mariolopoulos Award was created in 1996 by the Mariolopoulos-Kanaginis Foundation for the Environmental Sciences, which is in Athens, Greece. The Award is granted every year in recognition of young scientists for exceptional contributions to meteorology and climatology. A WMO trust fund was created in 1996 for the WMO Professor Mariolopoulos Award, which is fully financed by the Mariolopoulos-Kanaginis Foundation. The WMO Professor Mariolopoulos Award consists of: The Mariolopoulos-Kanaginis Foundation provides an additional US$ 3 000 to the awardee. The WMO Professor Mariolopoulos Award recognizes an outstanding research paper in atmospheric sciences that have been published or accepted in a refereed journal by a young scientist (age below 35 years by the date of publication). The judges are scientists from the WMO, the European Commission and the Mariolopoulos-Kanaginis Foundation Board of Trustees. The Secretary-General of WMO is part of the selection committee. Nominations can be made by: a. the National Committees of the International Association of Meteorological and Atmospheric Sciences (IAMAS) b. IAMAS Commissions c. by the Directors of the National Meteorological Services d. self-nominations are also accepted. The nomination should include: a. three reprints of the paper b. brief curriculum vitae of the nominee c. a reference letter by a senior scientist or a Member of the National Meteorological Service The nominations and the papers must be submitted in one of the official WMO languages (English, French, Spanish, Russian). Non-English papers should be accompanied by a translation in English. The nominations should be sent to: Mariolopoulos-Kanaginis Foundation for the Environmental Sciences "WMO Professor Mariolopoulos Trust Fund Award" Coumbari 6, 10674, Athens, Greece Or to info@mariolopoulosfoundation.gr For more information: http://www.mariolopoulosfoundation.gr/wmo-award-new-en.html To see a full list of previous winners, visit the Mariolopoulos Foundation website: http://www.mariolopoulosfoundation.gr/wmo-award-old-en.html#2012 © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)