Jump to navigation We’ve designed Isenberg’s MSA program to put our students ahead of the pack—providing the skills they need on an accelerated timeline. Our strong reputation and attention to quality puts our students on a fast trajectory toward success. Isenberg offers in-person and online programs to complete the MSA. Need assistance with this form? Need assistance with this form? Someone will be in touch with you within 48 hours. Our separately AACSB-accredited program is efficient, flexible and affordable, allowing students to quickly launch careers in accounting. By earning an MSA at Isenberg, you fulfill the educational requirements to become CPA certified in Massachusetts, and get a head start in the competitive job market. You’ll learn skills that will advance your accounting knowledge and enhance your understanding of the tax implications behind business decisions, gain expertise in financial valuation, and explore ethical standards.  As a graduate with an MSA, you may take a management position in accounting, auditing or budgeting, open your own accounting business, or go on to earn an MBA or doctorate degree. Specifically, you might be a chief financial officer, controller, internal auditor, or government auditor, or work in accounting information technology. The Isenberg Accounting Transitions Program is available for students with non-accounting degrees. In this program you will complete the courses needed for entry into the Isenberg Master of Science in Accounting program and earn a GMAT waiver in the process. You can start in fall or spring. The MS in Accounting requires 30 credits and courses are available in-residence and online. Many students complete the program in just two semesters, but students can take as long as needed based on other commitments such as work and family. The coursework in this program of study helps students gain a range of knowledge in accounting and business, including understanding tax implications, using technology to gain a competitive advantage, and business writing. Here’s a sample of some of our summer courses: Here’s a sample of some of our online fall or spring courses: The MS Accounting program meets all requirements for education in Massachusetts for the CPA license. For information about specific states please check nasba.org/stateboards. If you require additional information, please contact Dylan Curcio, Program Information Specialist. Learn more about the steps in the process of becoming a licensed CPA: The academic resources and career opportunities that Isenberg offers is the reason why I chose their MSA program. The community support that I have encountered has given me the confidence to pursue my dream and become a CPA. The quality of our department is reflected in the excellent record of placement, the success of our graduates, and the strong support of our alumni. We are a primary recruiting school for the most distinguished employers in public accounting, including the Big 4 public accounting firms, and many outstanding regional and local firms. In conjunction with the Chase Career Center, we are very active in helping our students prepare for a job search, locate jobs, and shape their careers.  Class of 2017 Thanks to our outstanding graduates, and to an excellent network of committed alumni and friends, we have achieved a record of placement in public accounting that is second to none in New England.     "At Ernst & Young, we are committed to recruiting the best and brightest professionals in the world. we are extremely supportive of the Isenberg MSA program, and we are thankful that it is helping to develop the leaders of tomorrow." -Jason R. Janoff, Assurance and Advisory Business Services Partner, Ernst & Young, LLP    Isenberg seeks the best and brightest. MSA candidates are evaluated based on academic history, GMAT results, evidence of motivation and aptitude for graduate-level work, and professional experience  You can view a full list of general admissions requirements on the UMass Amherst Graduate School website. You may enter the program during the Fall, Spring or Summer session. Application deadlines: October 1 for Spring admission and February 1 for Summer and Fall admission. Academic Year 2017-2018 Admitted Per Semester: 54 Average Undergraduate GPA: 3.53 Gender: 49.2% Female/49.4% Male International: 16% Average Age: 27 Expected Tuition: $800/credit *GMAT Waived for Isenberg Accounting Students.  You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.