Jump to navigation Echo360 lecture capture technology allows instructors to record course content in classrooms outfitted with Echo360 hardware, or on their desktop and laptop computers using the Echo360 Personal Capture software. Students can access recordings through their Moodle or Blackboard, and stream content at any time.  Echo360 is the lecture capture and streaming solution adopted by UMass Amherst. You can have your lectures in rooms equipped with Echo360 recorded automatically, or use the Echo360 Universal Capture: Personal to make recordings on your computer. Students can stream the content any time during the semester. You can allow students to review recordings of live class sessions, "flip" your classrooms by pre-recording lectures, or created target micro-lectures to clear up confusion amongst your students. With classroom-based capture, you can schedule and automatically record your classroom lectures, including: For a list of classrooms that currently have integrated lecture capture, see UMass Amherst Classrooms Equipped With Lecture Capture. IMPORTANT: Macintosh OSX users planning to use Echo360 Classroom Capture, see Use Echo360 Classroom Capture with an Apple Laptop for important information and additional steps you may need to take. Use Echo360 Universal Capture: Personal software on your Macintosh or Windows computer to capture audio, video, and screen action focused on specific topics that you choose to create. For instance, you could provide content for students who need improvement in a given subject, create a recording to cover a topic you weren’t able to get to in class, or even cover course content in the event of a snow day. Echo360 Universal Capture: Personal allows you to record anytime/anywhere, and have full control over the start/stop and publishing process. You can still upload course content you have crteated in another platform (e.g., Camatasia, Jing), into Echo360 to share with students. Simply request Echo360 for your course and upload your files. Please see our Lecture Capture Recordings Policy page for important information on how Echo360 recordings are made, managed, and responsibilities of instructors using the platform. To request Echo360 Classroom Capture or Echo360 Universal Capture: Personal software, see our Request Lecture Capture page. To learn more, contact the Instructional Media Lab (413-545-2823 | instruct@umass.edu). There is no charge for the use of Echo360.  © University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact