The WMO Statement on the State of the Global Climate 2018 report was launched on 28 March at a joint press conference with United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres, United Nations General Assembly President María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés and WMO Secretary-General Petteri Taalas at United Nations headquarters in New York. Congress also approved a new collaborative framework on the ocean to streamline and enhance WMO ocean activities, boost inter-agency coordination and cooperation, and contribute to the UN Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development, which runs from 2021 to 2030. The framework endorses a cross-cutting approach, embracing research, observations and forecasting, and service delivery in line with the Organization’s drive towards a more integrated Earth system strategy. Congress approved the... Divino Moura of Brazil received the WMO top prize for his outstanding work in meteorology and climatology and his leadership in science. Mr Moura was recognized for his “scientific contribution towards a better understanding of the role of the Atlantic and El Niño in the regional and global climate and establishing a framework for climate–society linkages and climate services, for dedicated research work and forming a cadre of scientists aiming Congress also endorsed a package of measures to strengthen early warnings against hazards like floods and tropical cyclones, and to ensure that these become part and parcel of humanitarian operations. It decided to spur work on a Global Multi-hazard Alert System that would pool information from national and regional systems that already exist, or are being planned. Congress also approved a new collaborative framework on the ocean to streamline and enhance WMO ocean activities, boost inter-agency coordination and cooperation, and contribute to the UN Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development, which runs from 2021 to 2030. Water stress, water-related hazards and water quality pose increasing challenges to modern society. And yet, the capacity to monitor and manage this vital resource is fragmented and inadequate. Paving the way for a radical overhaul of the international exchange of observational data which underpin all weather, climate and water services and products, Congress approved the establishment of a Global Basic Observing Network (GBON). Petteri Taalas of Finland, first appointed in 2015, was re-appointed WMO Secretary-General for a further four year-term. Congress elected Gerhard Adrian of Germany as the new WMO President for a four-year term in office with effect from the end of Congress on 14 June. The need to tackle climate change and predict and pre-empt its future impacts has added new imperatives to bringing down the barriers between scientific fields, policymakers, business and wider society. The objective of the WMO reform is to increase the Organization’s effectiveness and efficiency, and to better engage Members and experts. © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)