National Council of State Boards of Nursing (NCSBN) is an independent, not-for-profit organization through which nursing regulatory bodies act and counsel together on matters of common interest and concern affecting public health, safety and welfare, including the development of nursing licensure examinations. Get a list of websites and other contact information for all NCSBN members. NCSBN runs events throughout the year for leaders in the nursing industry. Sept. 26-27, Frisco, TX Oct. 2-4, 2019, Atlanta, GA NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN examinations developed and administered by NCSBN are constantly and rigorously evaluated to keep pace with the rapidly evolving health care environment. NCSBN was created to lessen the burdens of state governments and bring together nursing regulatory bodies to act and counsel together on matters of common interest. The trust that exists between patients and nurses is based on a simple concept: that the nurse is a competent, qualified professional who puts the patient’s best interest and safety first. NCSBN provides information on licensure, how to become licensed in other jurisdictions and other key resources. As an educator, you are the person nursing students look to for guidance and education, preparing them for their new role as a nurse. NCSBN provides you with professional, educational resources that seamlessly fit into your lesson plans and capture students. Laws and regulations that affect nurses vary across the United States and change often. NCSBN educates lawmakers and health care stakeholders on issues impacting nursing regulation and provides information and resources regarding nursing policy across the country. NCSBN encourages and funds research that informs regulatory decisions. NCSBN conducts its own groundbreaking research on subjects as diverse as transition to practice, simulation in nursing education and the nursing workforce, as well as funding the research of others that contributes to the science of nursing regulation. U.S. nursing regulatory bodies (NRBs) and NCSBN share a common goal: protecting the public. NCSBN supports its members in their mission to assure that only competent, licensed nurses practice, providing the best quality care to you and your loved ones. Learn about NCSBN and what it and NRBs are doing to address issues that affect the public health, safety and welfare. ©2019 National Council of State Boards of Nursing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.