UMass Amherst is committed to offering quality services and support programs for student veterans, active military, and their families. If you are a member of the UMass community, we hope you will stop by the new Student Veterans Resource Center (SVRC) located in Dickinson Hall (up Hicks Way from the Recreation Center) in Rooms 18-19. The SVRC hosts a variety of programming throughout the year such as the Resilient Warrior Course and cross cultural events. Veteran staff members are available during regular office hours if you have questions. You'll find the SVRC is a comfortable place to study, relax, meet other student veterans, learn about and access resources, or just have a cup of coffee! If you are a current or prospective student who has questions about veteran educational benefits, please click here for information about the process of applying for Veteran Educational Benefits. You can also visit UMass Amherst’s Certifying Official, Lynn Gates at 23 Dickinson Hall. Lynn’s phone number is 413-545-5792. Finally, if you are in the process of choosing the best campus to complete your degree, we hope you will consider UMass Amherst. By clicking on the Prospective Students button, you will find out where to learn more about the great academic programs at UMass Amherst, as well as information on how to apply. The SVRC is pleased to announce that the SGA Secretary of Veterans Affairs has secured a 15% discount on full year parking permits for student Veterans. To qualify you must be registered as an active student with a valid SPIRE I.D and present a DD-214 or active duty military ID at the time of purchase. Please visit the following webpage for full details: http://www.umass.edu/transportation/veterans-parking-discount Follow the SVRC on Facebook! Register with the SVRC for updates and event information! BE SURE TO CONTACT VETERANS BENEFITS at 413-545-5792 for the following: • That we have your CERTIFICATE OF ELIGIBILITY on file - The Department of Veteran Affairs requires us to have a current Certificate of Eligibility as well as your DD214 to ensure receipt of benefits. • If you don’t want to use your benefits for any semester, please notify our office immediately. • If you change your major or have gone from a non-degree to a degree program. Off Campus Housing Guide for Student Veterans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Recent article: U.S. News names ISB best online business masters for veterans! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • GI Bill® Updates Lynn Gates Certifying Official Veterans Benefits Certification Manager vetbenefits@umass.edu 413-545-5792 23 Dickinson Hall 155 Hicks Way UMass Amherst Amherst, MA 01003 Veteran Educational Benefits Information Student Veterans Resource Center 19 Dickinson Hall 413-545-0939 Open 9:00am - 5:00pm Monday - Friday Summer Hours: 9:00am-5:00pm Monday-Friday veteranservices@sacl.umass.edu FAQs on Application, Admission and Military Credits for UMass Amherst On-Campus Undergraduate Degree Programs Matt Bachmann Director, Student Veteran Resource Center 18/19 Dickinson Hall UMass Amherst Amherst, MA 10003 ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact