Jump to navigation  Isenberg is now one of the best public business schools in the nation, embedded in one of the nation’s top public research universities. Continually climbing the rankings, Isenberg’s undergraduate and online MBA program are ranked in the top 20. View all rankings.  At Isenberg, our students are driven to succeed and our undergraduate program readies them for it. Earn a bachelor's degree in business administration or science on our flagship campus in the vibrant town of Amherst. Isenberg also offers an online degree completion program for students looking to complete their bachelor's degree at their own pace. LEARN MORE Isenberg offers an MBA with on-campus and online options, along with four specialized master's degrees that will help you take your education and career to the next level. You will gain a wealth of knowledge and skills, a vigorous network of peers, professionals, and faculty, and the confidence and competence to tackle your next challenge. LEARN MORE Isenberg offers online programs for students looking to complete an undergraduate degree or earn an MBA, MSA, or certificate. Our online students benefit from a flexible learning environment that allows students to study anytime, anywhere, the same quality curriculum and with the same extraordinary faculty as the resident students. LEARN MORE Isenberg offers undergraduate and graduate certificate programs to advance students’ career paths. Our certificates are ideal for busy people seeking to excel in the creative and ever changing world of business, move up or over in their career path, or become an industry leader. LEARN MORE Isenberg’s highly selective PhD program produces prolific researchers, learned scholars, and exceptional educators. Students choose from nine concentrations and embark on four years of tailor-made instruction. Mentored by expert faculty and supported by peers, students deliver meaningful insight into their fields of study. LEARN MORE  The Isenberg School of Management seeks to 1) Make an impact on research in management, the teaching of management, and the practice of management by creating and sharing new knowledge; 2) Prepare students for a rapidly changing business environment by providing high quality educational programs; and 3) Support organizations within the commonwealth and other constituencies through outreach activities. Mission & Vision  New research by Isenberg School of Business Assistant Professor of Management Joanna Lin suggests that leaders who engage in “transformational”... In late August, first-year students in Isenberg’s On-Campus MBA program attended a retreat that culminated in a career and networking event. Isenberg mourns the passing of John “Jack” Conlon, a seminal professor and academic leader during the school’s first half century. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.