UMass Amherst, located in Amherst, Mass., is a nationally-ranked public research university offering a full range of undergraduate, graduate and professional degrees.    The Department of Art’s nationally and internationally recognized faculty prepares students for professional careers in the visual arts. With access to five galleries on campus, and the resources of the Five Colleges, students experience first-hand the complexities of the work of creating art. Exhibitions, screenings, and visiting artist lectures are free and open to the public. The Arts and Events Calendar offers a comprehensive listing of UMass Amherst events, including lectures, conferences, performing arts, exhibitions, cultural activities and more. All events are submitted by the campus community. The Arts Extension Service helps to connect the community and the arts through its online certificates in Arts Management, online Arts Administration bachelor's degree, publications, research services, and training programs for state, regional, and local arts agencies. Students learn modern dance, ballet, jazz, and other world dance forms while developing their strength, coordination, memory, timing and endurance. Numerous performance opportunities at UMass Amherst and the Five Colleges provide dancers with an extraordinary diversity of styles and choreography, and the public reaps the benefits. The Fine Arts Center, the central force in the cultural, social and academic life of the university, offers a variety of performances, exhibitions, presentations and education programs that impact the lives and meet the diverse needs of scholars, faculty, students, alumni and the broader community of the Pioneer Valley. Throughout UMass Amherst's beautiful and architecturally distinctive campus, art lovers have multiple opportunities to view student work, touring exhibitions, and permanent collections featuring pieces ranging from traditional to contemporary in diverse media. The Music Program’s nationally- and internationally-known faculty inspires students and equips them with the skills to succeed in their fields. The over 100 annual on-campus jazz, classical, early and contemporary music concerts by faculty, guest artists, and large and small advanced student ensembles are open to the public. Off-campus events are presented at schools, festivals and conferences. UMass Theater audiences enjoy professional-level productions of theater classics and cutting-edge new works as our students learn discipline, teamwork, and creative expression through their work on our mainstage shows and smaller independent projects, all of them open to the community. Check out the UMass Profiles Series, featuring student, faculty and alumni stories. Find out why they #Stand4UMass. Disability Services Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Snapchat © 2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Amherst, MA 01003 Contact UMass Amherst • Employment Opportunities • Site Policies • UMass System