The majority of parking citations are entered into an electronic handheld device which is downloaded directly into our computer system every evening. However, some citations are handwritten. Handwritten citations can take two to three business days to appear in the system. Once a citation is in our system, you can pay for it or appeal it online. Pay citations / Appeal Citation All monies collected from parking citations go directly into the University's Parking Scholarship fund which is administered by the Financial Aid Office. A citation must be disputed within 14 days of issuance. Citation appeals may be made by mail (Parking Services, University of Massachusetts, 51 Forestry Way, Amherst, MA 01003-9262 – Attn.: Hearings Clerk), online, or in-person at the Parking Services office locations. To dispute the outcome of a citation appeal, you may complete a Re-appeal Citation Form [PDF] may be filed with the Hearings Review Board, but must be submitted within 10 days of receipt of the original appeal decision. These appeals must be made in writing and should be sent to: Parking Services, University of Massachusetts, 51 Forestry Way, Amherst, MA 01003-9262 – Attn.: Hearing Review Board. The registered owner of the vehicle for which the citation was written is responsible for payment of the citation. All monies collected from parking citations go directly into the University's Parking Scholarship Fund which is administered by the Financial Aid Office. #01 HANDICAP AREA (no state-issued placard/plate or UMass special needs permit) #21 METER VIOLATION—EXPIRED METER cannot be appealed. Failure to pay outstanding citations may result in the inability to register for classes and/or withholding of transcripts/diploma. This is a policy of the Office of the Bursar. Failure to pay citation balance may also result in vehicle being marking at the DMV and/or sent to a collection agency. Failure to pay citation(s) in timely manner will result in additional late fees. Log into My Account to pay your citation, appeal your citation or check the appeal status of your citation Vehicles towed off UMASS Amherst campus can be retrieved from Ernie's Towing in North Amherst. Appeal Criteria (PDF) Account Log In parking@umass.edu (413) 577-PARK (7275)  transit@umass.edu (413) 545-0056  transport@umass.edu (413) 545-4682