Jump to navigation The Isenberg Online MBA is the perfect program for professionals looking to be leaders in their industry. Combining the quality curriculum of our on-campus Masters of Business Administration program with the flexibility of the online platform, the Online MBA provides quality learning tailored to the student's schedule and timetable. Participants can choose to complete their MBA 100% online, or, if they are located in the Massachusetts area, can take classes online and in-person at one of our three satellite campus locations: Springfield, Shrewsbury, and Boston. Join the more than 1200 professionals, many with more than 10 years work experience, currently enrolled in the program. Get started today. Need assistance with this form? Need assistance with this form? Someone will be in touch with you within 48 hours. Isenberg offers a superior education at a competitive rate, making your MBA an exceptional return on your investment. With our affordable tuition and excellent aid opportunities, you can live within your means while investing in your future. Online MBA $900 per credit hour (for classes offered online and at all satellite locations: Boston, Shrewsbury, Springfield). Estimated total cost of MBA program: $35,100. Online MBA with a Focus Area 6 additional credit hours x $900 = $5,400. Estimated total cost for an MBA with a Focus Area: $40,500.  There is a $47 registration fee per semester, plus the cost of books and materials. Once accepted to the program, an additional one-time fee of $507.00 applies (subject to change without notice). To apply for graduate financial aid at UMass Amherst, you only need to complete one form—the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, commonly called FAFSA. The Graduate Financial Aid office will use the FAFSA to determine your eligibility for federal, state and university aid programs. Full-time Massachusetts state employees, their spouses and unmarried dependent children (through... Full-time Massachusetts state employees, their spouses and unmarried dependent children (through age 25) who meet eligibility and admission requirements will receive 50% reduction of class fees for online courses. For more information visit this site. You will be billed directly by the University Bursar's Office. You will be billed directly by the University Bursar's Office. Billing information will be sent to your UMass email (UMass Email) account. Paper bills will not be generated. The bill can be viewed from a link within SPIRE and paid directly online, or it can be downloaded and mailed with a check. If your employer is paying for your tuition, you may also use Agency or Corporate Billing. Yes, tuition is the same for online courses regardless of state or even country. Yes, tuition is the same for online courses regardless of state or even country. You will need to complete and sign the agreement below:  You will need to complete and sign the agreement below:  xtended Payment Plan Agreement - Winter 2018 Extended Payment Plan Agreement - Spring 2019 Extended Payment Plan Agreement - Summer 2019 Extended Payment Plan Agreement - Fall 2019  Read more  When to Apply for Admissions: Course Registration Generally Begins:  You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.