All graduate student employees must complete and submit the documents listed below to Human Resources at least two weeks before their assistantship starts. Adhering to this timeline will help ensure that your appointment as a graduate assistant is processed in a timely manner and that you receive a paycheck on the first scheduled pay date. Please follow the procedure outlined below if you are one of the following: Please complete all payroll forms and submit them in-person or via mail to Human Resources. Please complete the I-9 Form (Employment Eligibility Verification) using one of these options: Students living on or near campus should simply stop by UMass Amherst Human Resources (HR) with their original, unexpired supporting documents (for international students, this includes a printed copy of their most recent I-94 Form) to complete the I-9 Form. Students currently living outside the United States (including international students) should bring the above documents to Human Resources immediately upon their arrival in the Amherst area. Students living off-campus but in the United States may complete the I-9 form through a notary public. To do so, please bring your original, unexpired I-9 supporting documents (including a printed copy of your most recent I-94 Form if you are an international student) to a notary public, complete section 1 of the I-9 form in the presence of the notary, and have the notary complete section 2. Upon completion, the I-9 form, completed attachments, and copies of I-9 supporting documents, and completed payroll documents should be mailed to Human Resources. Students living off-campus but in the United States may also submit their I-9 forms through the CUPA I-9 Consortium by bringing their original, unexpired I-9 supporting documents (including a printed copy of your most recent I-94 if you are an international student) to the HR office of a participating college or university. Upon completion, the I-9 form, completed attachments, and copies of I-9 supporting documents, and completed payroll documents should be mailed to Human Resources. Questions regarding any aspect of the hiring packet for NEW graduate student employees should be directed to one of the following individuals: Human Resources is located in Room 325 of the Whitmore Administration Building and is open during normal business hours Monday-Friday from 8:30 AM-5:00 PM. If you are submitting your I-9 and payroll forms by mail, please use the following address: University of Massachusetts Amherst 181 Presidents’ Drive 325 Whitmore Administration Building Amherst, MA 01003 Attn: Graduate Student/Human Resources