The US gymnast says she's having a "hard time processing" what's happened. Tevin Biles-Thomas, brother of gymnast Simone Biles, is charged in connection with three murders. American Simone Biles becomes the second woman in history to win six all-around titles at the US Championships. Great Britain's Nile Wilson says the "really dark place" he was in earlier this year taught him to prioritise happiness over success and medals. Legendary gymnast Nadia Comaneci welcomes the introduction of the Aurora Games, saying women "deserve their own platform" in sport. Glasgow is co-hosting the inaugural European Championships, with 47 Scots competing across seven different sports. More medals than four years ago, more golds than China, but how did Great Britain create a team capable of making history? We've discovered some of the burning questions you've been asking about the Olympics - and think we can help you find the answers. Team GB will send 366 athletes to Rio for the 2016 Olympic Games. BBC Sport's David Currie profiles Dan Purvis - Scotland's most successful gymnast. Beth Tweddle MBE, Hannah Miley and Gemma Fay answer a range of questions about tackling some of the perceived barriers to participation. Gymnastics is booming in Wales after Frankie Jones's Commonwealth Games success How the 2014 Youth Olympics showcased talent which could bring Great Britain golds at Rio 2016 and Tokyo 2020. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you Take our quiz, learn a thing or two, then get yourself along to a gymnastics class and be amazed! Check out the BBC Sport Live Guide for details of all the forthcoming live sport on the BBC. 'England will plan racism response' F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France Bayliss reflects on time with England I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad