To be considered for financial aid, you must: *The U.S. Department of Education requires that students receiving federal financial aid meet the UMass Amherst academic status standards ensuring academic progress toward a degree or certificate program of study. If your eligibility changes your award may be adjusted. Financial aid is available to eligible non-citizens. Generally you are an eligible non-citizen if you meet any of the following criteria: You may be asked by Financial Aid Services to provide valid documentation of your status. You are not eligible if you are: Contact Financial Aid Services if you have questions about your eligibility. If you are an international student who is not eligible based on the criteria above, you do not qualify for financial aid. There are a number of websites that can help you search for scholarship opportunities. You can also apply for alternative loans if you are able to obtain a cosigner who is a U.S. citizen. You should contact International Programs Office (413-545-2710) or visit www.umass.edu/ipo for more information. After your initial application for financial aid (FAFSA), you must submit a renewal FAFSA each year to continue receiving aid. If there are any changes in household size, number of family members in college, or financial changes, your award will increase or decrease accordingly. In addition, there are variations from year to year in the financial aid funds available from federal, state, and/or institutional sources. These variations may require adjustments to awards. If you receive federal, state, or institutional financial aid, you must maintain satisfactory academic progress (SAP) throughout your program in order to maintain eligibility. These are minimum requirements – some financial aid programs may have higher academic standards for continued eligibility When you apply for financial aid through the FAFSA, some of your information is verified with different federal agencies, including the Social Security Administration (for verification of Social Security Numbers and citizenship status). If the information you provide does not match federal agency databases, the discrepancy must be resolved through the financial aid office before you can receive financial aid. Income information may also be verified using the verification worksheet and IRS tax return transcript. See more information under Apply for Aid. Each term the financial aid office will finalize your enrollment at the end of the add/drop period. During summer term this window is shorter. This date is referred to as census date for financial aid. Your financial aid may be adjusted as a result of a change to your enrollment. You will be sent an email if your award is updated. You could owe additional money to the university if your award is reduced. Students intending to withdraw from all classes must complete a Withdrawal Form. Visit the Dean of Students Office web site for more information on the types of withdrawals and a list of FAQs regarding the withdrawal process. Once the form is completed and submitted, the student is considered “officially withdrawn.” Return of Title IV Funds - How a full withdrawal affects federal financial aid Title IV Federal financial aid is awarded to students under the assumption that a student will attend the institution for the entire enrollment period (semester) in which the aid is awarded. When a student withdraws from all courses, for any reason, including medical reasons, the student may not be eligible for the full amount of federal aid originally awarded. Students who receive federal financial aid and do not complete their classes during a semester could be responsible for repaying a portion of the aid they received. Students that did not begin attendance must repay all financial aid disbursed for the term. How the federal financial aid adjustment is calculated Students “earn” their Title IV federal financial aid by attending classes they are enrolled in during the term. The amount of “earned” aid is based on the percentage of the term the student attended. Once UMass is notified that the student has withdrawn, the earned percentage is calculated by dividing the number of calendar days in the semester (less any scheduled breaks of 5 days or longer) by the number of days attended. If the earned percentage is 60% or more, the student is considered to have earned all aid and no federal aid adjustment is necessary. The adjustment calculation uses the last day the student attended classes or the Last Date of Attendance. The date that the student submits the withdrawal form or otherwise notifies UMass of his/her withdrawal is known as the Withdrawal Date. Any adjustments to financial aid will be completed within 45 days of the withdrawal date. The calculation of Title IV federal financial aid funds earned by the student has no relationship to the student’s incurred institutional charges. Treatment of unearned federal aid The amount of “unearned” federal aid (100% minus the earned aid percentage) is returned to federal programs in the following order: Federal Work-Study earned compensation will not need to be repaid. Students may not continue to work in a work-study position once they cease attendance or drop below six credits. Unofficial Withdrawal Unofficial withdrawal from the university occurs when the student registers for courses for a term and either never attends any classes or stops attending all courses at some point during the semester without completing and submitting the withdrawal form. If you are receiving federal financial aid, the university is required to adjust the aid in the same manner as an official withdrawal.  Financial Aid Services 243 Whitmore Admin. Building 181 Presidents Dr. Amherst, MA 01003 Phone: 413-545-0801 Fax: 413-545-1700 finaid@finaid.umass.edu Staff Listing Monday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Tuesday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Wednesday: 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. Thursday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Saturday: Closed Sunday: Closed CMASS, Wilder Hall Thursdays 2:30-4:30 p.m. International Programs Office, 70 Butterfield Terrace Tuesdays 12:30-4:30 p.m. Library Learning Commons Tuesdays & Wednesdays 5:00-8:00 p.m.   ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact