CHICAGO - NCSBN has launched the NCLEX Practice Exam (NPE) that provides candidates in the U.S. and Canada preparing to take NCLEX Examinations with an experience that is similar to the look and the feel of the actual test. The NPE is a simulation of the NCLEX using actual, retired NCLEX items. The NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN Examinations are nationwide examinations designed to measure entry-level nursing competence utilized in both the U.S and Canada as part of the licensing process. Recognized globally as preeminent nursing examinations, the exams are constantly and rigorously evaluated to keep pace with the rapidly evolving health care environment. “NPE is designed to reduce candidate anxiety about taking the NCLEX Exam. It offers the most unique experience in that it is a computerized adaptive test just like the actual exam,” comments Philip D. Dickison, PhD, RN, NCSBN chief officer, Operations and Examinations. While not a review course or predictor of success, the NPE offers candidates: two separate exams with 125 questions on each; six continuous hours to take each RN practice exam; five continuous hours to take each PN practice exam; a tutorial to demonstrate the different question types; and a score report with the percentage of questions answered correctly. The cost of the NPE is $150 USD. About NCSBN NCSBN marks its 40th anniversary milestone in 2018 with the inspiring theme of “Regulatory Excellence Surging Toward the Future.” Founded March 15, 1978, as an independent not-for-profit organization, NCSBN was initially created to lessen the burdens of state governments and bring together boards of nursing (BONs) to act and counsel together on matters of common interest. It has evolved into one of the leading voices of regulation across the world. NCSBN’s membership is comprised of the BONs in the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and four U.S. territories — American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands and the Virgin Islands. There are three exam user members. There are also 28 associate members that are either nursing regulatory bodies or empowered regulatory authorities from other countries or territories. NCSBN Member Boards protect the public by ensuring that safe and competent nursing care is provided by licensed nurses. These BONs regulate more than 4.8 million licensed nurses. Mission: NCSBN provides education, service and research through collaborative leadership to promote evidence-based regulatory excellence for patient safety and public protection. The statements and opinions expressed are those of NCSBN and not the individual member state or territorial boards of nursing. ©2019 National Council of State Boards of Nursing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.