The Executive Council established the Professor Dr Vilho Väisälä Award for an Outstanding Research Paper on Instruments and Methods of Observation in 1985 and the Professor Dr Vilho Väisälä Award for the Development and Implementation of Instruments and Methods of Observation in 2004. This 2nd award focuses mainly on encouraging instrument work in developing countries and countries with economies in transition. Both Awards are granted on a biennial basis. 1. Purpose The purpose of the award is to encourage and stimulate interest in research in the field of instruments and methods of observation in support of WMO Programmes. 2. Criteria for granting awards The award shall recognize an outstanding paper published in a scientific journal, or a summary of a successfully defended Ph.D. thesis for: (i) the significance of its topic; (ii) the novelty of its ideas and methods; 3. Methods of submission 4. Method of selection (a) The president of CIMO, in consultation with the vice-president, invites three distinguished scientists in the field of instruments and methods of observation, who would serve as assessors for both awards; (b) For each award, each assessor should allot a mark to each paper, which should be in the range 0 (lowest) to 5 (highest) and submit the evaluation to the Secretary-General. The evaluation should be based on the criteria defined above with equal weight being assigned to each of the three criteria mentioned under 2 above; (c) The final selection of the award winner, or winners, for each award, is made by the Selection Committee established for this purpose by the Executive Council for a period of four years. The Committee consists of two members and, ex officio, the president of CIMO. (d) The Executive Council Selection Committee may decide not to recommend an award if the papers/reports submitted are not of a sufficiently high standard. 5. Nature of the award Each award consists of a diploma, a medal and a sum of US$ 10,000; the latter could be shared between co-authors. The award is granted on a biennial basis. 6. Award ceremony The award ceremony shall normally take place during the conjoint WMO Technical Conference on Meteorological and Environmental Instruments and Methods of Observation (TECO) and the Exhibition of Meteorological Instruments Related Equipment and Services (METEOREX). 1. Purpose The purpose of the award is to encourage and stimulate capacity development in instruments and methods of observation for the WMO Integrated Global Observing System (WIGOS) in developing countries. 2. Criteria for granting awards The award shall be made for an outstanding paper published in a scientific journal, or a significant technical report, a project report or a summary of a successfully defended Ph.D. or MSc. thesis for: 3. Methods of submission 4. Method of selection (a) The president of CIMO, in consultation with the vice-president, invites three distinguished scientists in the field of instruments and methods of observation, who would serve as assessors for both awards. (b) For each award, each assessor should allot a mark to each paper, which should be in the range 0 (lowest) to 5 (highest) and submit the evaluation to the Secretary-General. The evaluation should be based on the criteria defined above with equal weight being assigned to each of the three criteria mentioned under 2 above. (c) The final selection of the award winner, or winners, for each award, is made by the Selection Committee established for this purpose by the Executive Council for a period of four years. The Committee consists of two members and, ex officio, the president of CIMO. (d) The Executive Council Selection Committee may decide not to recommend an award if the papers/reports submitted are not of a sufficiently high standard. 5. Nature of the award Each award consists of a diploma, a medal and a sum of US$ 10,000; the latter could be shared between co-authors. The award is granted on a biennial basis. 6. Award ceremony The award ceremony shall normally take place during the conjoint WMO Technical Conference on Meteorological and Environmental Instruments and Methods of Observation (TECO) and the Exhibition of Meteorological Instruments Related Equipment and Services (METEOREX). Fan Yang (China) XingHua Yang (China) Wen Huo (China) Mamtimin Ali (China) XinQian Zheng (China) ChengLong Zhou (China) Qing He (China) © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)