Over the course of five decades, Chihuly has explored new and old techniques, pushing the boundaries of contemporary art. He draws inspiration from the world around him, creating statements using color and form to capture the imagination, and catapult beyond conventional ideas of function and beauty.  Over the course of five decades, Chihuly has explored new and old techniques, pushing the boundaries of contemporary art. He draws inspiration from the world around him, creating statements using color and form to capture the imagination, and catapult beyond conventional ideas of function and beauty.  “I had seen some beautiful Northwest Coast Indian baskets... and I was struck by the grace of their slumped, sagging forms.” –Chihuly “We came up with this technique where we’d lay out little bits of glass on the steel table ….. and then pick it up with molten glass.” –Chihuly “When lit these pieces come to life as multi-dimensional paintings in color, light, and glass.” –Chihuly "The quintessential Ikebana would be a Venetian... with a long stem coming out of it, perhaps two or three stems. And it might be six feet high." –Chihuly "Glass is the most magical of all materials. It transmits light in a special way.” –Chihuly "...I love the look of glass crystals.” –Chihuly "...Color is one of the greatest properties of glass and is more intense in glass than any other material." –Chihuly "...I loved the…ones that seemed to make the least amount of sense, like the really crazy ones—purple and chartreuse." –Chihuly "The Persians started out as a search for forms." –Chihuly "To me, the Putti look best made out of glass....Maybe it's because you can see through it. They’re happier in glass." –Chihuly "Rotolo rekindled my excitement for working with clear glass. I was really amazed by the complexity and brilliance of the form." –Chihuly "If you work with hot glass and its natural properties, it begins to look like something that came from the sea." –Chihuly "Halfway into the blowing process, the gaffer comes down on the drawing with the molten glass and fuses it to the surface." –Chihuly "I started the series with the simple idea of replicating these strange Art Deco vases.” –Chihuly "Most of the drawings are quite spontaneous. I don’t do much with preconceived ideas." –Chihuly Stay connected. Join our list For assistance 206.781.8707 For assistance 206.781.8707 © 2019 Chihuly, Inc. All rights reserved. USA