UMass Amherst, located in Amherst, Mass., is a nationally-ranked public research university offering a full range of undergraduate, graduate and professional degrees.    The Office of Research and Engagement oversees the campus’s research enterprise and promotes research, scholarship, creativity, and engagement by providing support and advocacy for campus-wide efforts. Research Next is your gateway to the interdisciplinary research, scholarship, and creative activity that distinguishes UMass Amherst as a top research university. Our story is told through the voices of the faculty, students, and staff who, through their work, are creating a brighter future for us all. Research Administration and Compliance provides leadership and services that support the growth of research and scholarship across the campus. Offices facilitate funding and engagement with external partners to promote innovation and societal impact, while ensuring compliance with all research related regulations and policies. The Technology Transfer Office is responsible for spurring the commercialization of UMass Amherst research for public benefit while protecting intellectual property and providing recognition to campus researchers and inventors. Through the UMass Innovation Institute, UMass Amherst is reinventing its approach to applied research and engagement with industry. Our aim is simple: to ensure that campus discoveries and technologies move forward into society. Undergraduate research is part of the UMass Amherst experience. In addition to course-related research, opportunities for undergraduates include summer research experiences, foreign exchange, internships, scholarships/fellowships and working in faculty labs. Every day, in laboratories and classrooms across the UMass Amherst campus and in the surrounding community, our scientists and scholars are engaged in creative and innovative work. To recognize this, the campus has established the Spotlight Scholar program, designed to call attention to the achievements and accomplishments of the UMass Amherst faculty. UMass Amherst is a research powerhouse. Find out why on the Report on Research website. Disability Services Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Snapchat © 2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Amherst, MA 01003 Contact UMass Amherst • Employment Opportunities • Site Policies • UMass System