Jump to navigation Isenberg is a leader in the area of alternative investment research and we see this sector as a growing area of the financial industry. In response, we have created the master of finance in alternative investments (MFAI) 1-year degree program that is designed to prepare students to practice finance in the 21st century. The MFAI has achieved classification as a STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) program. Need assistance with this form? Need assistance with this form? Someone will be in touch with you within 48 hours. As the global financial markets become increasingly complex and investors seek greater diversification along with increased return on investments, there has never been more demand for expertise in the field of alternative investments. However, there has not been a graduate program dedicated to this growing but complicated asset class. To fill the gap, the Isenberg School of Management has created the world’s first such program, the Master of Finance in Alternative Investments (MFAI). In one short year, the MFAI will provide you with both the cutting-edge knowledge and the credentials you need to accelerate your career in this thriving field. GET A UNIQUE DEGREE FROM A TOP, AACSB-ACCREDITED BUSINESS SCHOOL. The Isenberg School of Management simulates the real-world challenges you’ll face on the job so you’ll be equipped to handle the ever-changing issues of today’s financial world. ENJOY THE BENEFITS OF ONE OF THE BEST FINANCE DEPARTMENTS IN AI WORLDWIDE. Isenberg faculty are recognized around the globe for their leading-edge research in AI and serve as editors of The Journal of Alternative Investments (JAI), the preeminent journal in the field. As a result, the department has an established reputation for excellence in scholarship as well as real-world application. TAP INTO OUR UNPARALLELED ACADEMIC PARTNERSHIPS. The Center for International Securities and Derivatives Markets (CISDM), located at Isenberg, hosts conferences, connects academic and business communities, and provides access to the Morningstar CISDM Database. In 2002, CISDM co-founded the Amherst-based Chartered Alternative Investment Analyst Association (CAIA), which supplies credentials and support for AI professionals. Learn more about the finance department. Our world-class faculty, experiential-based curriculum, and academic partners prepare our students for success in the sought-after field of alternative investments. The Master of Finance in Alternative Investments gives students an in-depth understanding of how to make effective financial analysis and investment decisions while managing risk across a broad array of asset classes including hedge funds, private equity, venture capital, commodities, real estate, sustainable finance, and more. The program bridges theory, real-time data analysis, and ethical and professional standards while leveraging cutting-edge finance techniques and industry practices to provide the expertise needed to succeed.   Whether you are applying straight from an undergraduate program, switching your career focus, or seeking to deepen your knowledge of alternative investments, the Isenberg MFAI will provide you with the specialist knowledge you need to thrive in the field of alternative investments and broaden your network of finance professionals. The one-year program is designed for those with some quantitative background in such subjects as calculus and statistics. Experience in the workforce is preferred but not required. Working with the world’s leading experts in alternative investments, MFAI students learn to apply real-world solutions and practices through a rigorous, progressive curriculum, team-based learning, small classes, and hands-on problem-solving, including real-time data analysis using Bloomberg terminals. Isenberg professors and faculty partners teach critical thinking and investing while focusing on all key aspects of alternative investments such as financial analysis, derivative strategies, hedge funds, private equity, risk management, venture capital, sustainable finance, emerging markets, real estate, and more. Learn More In the complicated world of alternative investments, the Isenberg MFAI quickly confers both the expertise and the credibility you need to set yourself apart -- no previous business experience required. The Master of Finance in Alternative Investments delivers the specialized skills and expertise needed to succeed in one of the fastest-growing yet most complex segments of the asset management industry. Cutting-edge knowledge of best practices and ethics as well as a full range of strategies is essential to thrive in the industry. Isenberg’s MFAI equips you with the skills to create and grow wealth, manage risk, and distinguish yourself in the field. Our masters program makes you a highly-desirable candidate for some of the highest-paying finance jobs.       Alternative investments is a thriving field in both the United States and abroad. Alternative investments is the fastest-growing area within the asset management industry and assets are projected to grow an average of 11 percent a year through at least 2020 according to the accounting firm PwC. During and after your time on campus, Isenberg’s Chase Career Center offers expert career guidance and placement assistance as well as connections to the school’s 43,000-strong alumni network. Leading firms at such financial entities as hedge funds, pension funds, money management firms, private equity firms, consulting companies, and university endowments are all seeking employees with expertise in alternative investments. Additionally, regulatory agencies from around the world face a critical shortage of staff members who can understand complex investment products and processes that are at the center of the industry . A masters degree in alternative investments prepares you to work in positions such as analyst, personal investment advisor, risk officer, compliance officer, trader, portfolio manager, pension consultant, researcher, and financial economist.  A trio of partnerships unique to Isenberg offers MFAI students significant benefits including access to industry thought leaders and executives, conferences, research opportunities, and databases.    Isenberg houses the Center for International Securities and Derivatives Markets (CISDM). CISDM places the school at the forefront of academic institutions that conduct research into derivatives, alternative investments, and asset and risk management and promotes interactions between the academic and business communities. Through CISDM, students gain access to thought leaders and top executives in the field as well as to the Morningstar CISDM Database. Students also have the opportunity to collaborate directly on financial markets research.  Learn More  The Chartered Alternative Investment Analyst Association (CAIA) sponsors the CAIA Charter, an internationally recognized alternative investments credential, as well as continuing education and professional events worldwide. Isenberg is one of only 20 CAIA academic partners and the only one to offer this specialized masters degree. CAIA’s textbooks were co-authored by Isenberg Professor Hossein Kazemi, and he and Dr. Keith Black, Managing Director of the CAIA Association, will be teaching two courses in the program. MFAI graduates interested in CAIA certification will be able to skip the Level I Exam and the association will have 10 scholarships available for students taking Level II.  Learn More  The Journal of Alternative Investments (JAI) provides its readers with innovative research, practical tools, and expert analysis on managing investments in hedge funds, private equity, distressed debt, commodities and futures, energy, funds of funds, and other nontraditional assets. Housed at Isenberg, JAI is the official publication of the CAIA Association and its editors include Isenberg Professors Hossein Kazemi, Bing Liang, and Mila Getmansky Sherman. MFAI students will benefit from exposure to the most current research in alternative investments as well as from the editors’ resources and connections in the profession. Learn More   You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.