Climate describes the average weather conditions for a particular location and over a long period of time. We study the climate, its variations and extremes, and its influences on a variety of activities including human health, safety and welfare to support evidence-based decision-making on how to best adapt to a changing climate. WMO helps its Members to monitor the Earth’s climate on a global scale so that reliable information is available to support evidence-based decision-making on how to best adapt to a changing climate and manage risks associated with climate variability and extremes. Climate information is essential for monitoring the success of efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to climate change, as well as for promoting efforts to increase energy efficiency and to transition to a carbon-neutral economy. The most popular climate information products of the WMO include:  Our understanding of the Earth’s climate is rooted in observations of the atmosphere, oceans, and land surface, including the hydrological and carbon cycles and the cryosphere. Using weather observations that are made regularly over a period of time, we can quantify long-term average conditions and gain insight into an area’s climate. Climatologists use climate normals—30-year historical averages of variables like temperature and precipitation—as benchmarks to put, for example, the magnitude of a current heatwave or rainstorm into historical context. In areas where direct observations are sparse, observations are combined with models through reanalysis to arrive at numerical descriptions of recent climate. Reanalysis data are used for monitoring climate change, as well as for research, education and commercial applications. The WMO Catalogue for Climate Data is a trustworthy source for climate data. The datasets have been assessed through an internationally agreed maturity evaluation process. An initial set of 18 global climate datasets has been so far submitted by the international domain Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) and assessed. The content of the catalogue is expected to expand quickly in the future with including other global data sets as well as regional and national climate datasets. The State of the Climate Indicators are a set of seven parameters that describe the changing climate without reducing climate change to only temperature. They comprise key information for the most relevant domains of climate change: temperature and energy, atmospheric composition, ocean and water as well as the cryosphere. Data repositories and archives play a critical role as the source for the observational data used in the study of weather and climate. After over two centuries of recording observations on physical media – and the last 20 years on digital media – these records are at risk. Long-term meteorological observations are part of the irreplaceable cultural and scientific heritage of mankind that serve the needs of current and future generations for long-term high quality climate records. They are unique sources of past information about atmospheric parameters, thus are references for climate variability and change assessments. To highlight this importance, WMO has a mechanism to recognize centennial observing stations. Monitoring shorter-term climate conditions and predicting what the next season will bring or how our climate will change in coming years is critical for sustainable development and is an important component of climate adaptation and climate services. WMO collaborates with its Members to issue global seasonal predictions such as the El Niño/La Niña Update and the Global Seasonal Climate Update to help different sectors make climate-smart decisions. The WMO designation process for Global Producing Centres for Long-Range Forecasts (GPCLRFs) helps ensure the consistency and usability of forecast production cycles, products and verification standards. The services provided by these centres set the context essential for predicting climate on regional scales by Regional Climate Centres and Regional Climate Outlook Forums, and on local scales by NMHSs. These centres of excellence strengthen the capacity of WMO Members in a given region to deliver better climate services to national users. Groups of centres that collectively provide these forecasts and services in a distributed network are called an RCC Network. The mandatory functions of RCCs include: In 2006, the WMO began designating centres making global seasonal forecasts as WMO Global Producing Centres of Long-Range Forecasts. These form an integral part of the WMO Global Data-Processing and Forecasting System. Regional Climate Outlook Forums (RCOFs) produce consensus-based, user-relevant climate outlook products in real time through regional cooperation and partnership in order to reduce climate-related risks and support sustainable development for the coming season in sectors of critical socioeconomic significance for the region in question. Climate information helps individuals and organizations make climate-smart decisions, particularly when combined with data on socio-economic variables – such as agricultural production, health trends, human settlement in high-risk areas, road and infrastructure maps for the delivery of goods – to generate actionable information for decision-making. It is essential for monitoring the success of efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to climate change, as well as for promoting efforts to increase energy efficiency and to transition to a carbon-neutral economy. The Global Framework for Climate Services (GFCS) provides a worldwide mechanism for coordinated actions to enhance the quality, quantity and application of climate services. It helps countries develop and use climate services, and provides a platform for guiding and assisting activities implemented in climate-sensitive investment areas in support of climate adaptation and mitigation. Read more  The agricultural sector critically depends on timely and accurate weather, climate and water information, particularly as it faces increasing climate risks. Timely weather and climate forecasts as well as water-related information enable the agricultural community to increase crop and livestock yields, plan planting and harvest time, and reduce pests and diseases. Read more...  Energy systems are the engine of economic and social development. Energy is essential to practically all aspects of human welfare – access to water, agricultural productivity, health care, education, job creation, environmental sustainability and more. Energy investments represent a sizeable portion of Gross Domestic Product but, at the same time, energy sector emissions account for the largest share of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. As the global population grows and the demand for water increases, it is critical to effectively and sustainably manage our limited water resources. To do so, we need to know where they are, in what quantity and quality, how variable they are, and how they will evolve in the foreseeable future. WMO supports climate policy-making by providing authoritative advice and information on climate change mitigation and adaptation. WMO draws from the best available scientific expertise from the National Hydrological and Meteorological Services of its Members, and international data centres and agencies. Moreover, WMO promotes a better understanding of the societal impacts of climate change within the United Nations system. WMO coordinates research related to weather, climate and atmospheric composition. Other work by WMO aims to improve observations, ensure their consistency, and store and disseminate the results.  Partners in the WMO Global Atmosphere Watch (GAW) compile reliable scientific data and information on the chemical composition of the atmosphere and its natural and anthropogenic change. This helps to improve the understanding of interactions between the atmosphere, the oceans and the biosphere. Other work by WMO aims to improve observations, ensure their consistency, and store and disseminate the results. Read more   As nations pledge to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, concentration measurements of greenhouse gases will unequivocally determine whether the actions taken are having the desired effect. The Integrated Global Greenhouse Gas Information System (IG3IS) helps guide valuable GHG emission-reduction actions in response to climate change. Read more  The World Climate Research Programme (WCRP) brings together the best expertise to address key climate science challenges using a multidisciplinary approach – organizing large-scale observational and modelling projects and providing an international forum to align the efforts of thousands of climate scientists working to provide the best possible climate information. WCRP works closely with the World Weather Research Programme (WWRP) on a variety of topics, including examining the linkages between climate and extreme weather. Read more Improving the understanding of the climate system for the benefit of societies coping with climate variability and change. Research activities focusing on high-impact weather – from basic research in the academic community to operational contributions. Addressing atmospheric composition on all scales: from global, regional, to local and urban. © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)