Jump to navigation Learn more about company interviews, presentations and skill-based workshops available to Isenberg students! A list of participating firms is below: Students of all majors are encouraged to attend! The Beyond Your Degree: Careers in Finance day contains panels, career preparation workshops, lunch, and student/alumni networking. It is aimed to shed some insight into the various career paths a degree in finance from UMass can lead to. We are hoping to inspire and motivate students by introducing them to highly successful and distinguished alumni and industry professionals. DELL is coming to campus to recruit diverse candidates for all of their roles. They are looking for students from all majors including the sciences, math, business, social sciences, engineering, and computer science. You do not need any tech or sales experience. All Dell programs have a strong training component. Dell is looking for students who are strong leaders, have grit and perseverance, are naturally curious, like working in a fast-paced environment and enjoy learning new things. Come learn how you can be a part of this tech company! A full dinner will be provided, as well as DELL swag. Come listen to a diverse, young professional panel and then network with the recruiters. If you have any questions beforehand, feel free to reach out to these recent UMass Alumni who currently work at DELL: * Melissa Beaupre, 2019 Sport Management Alum, Marketing Analyst at DELL * Aishwarya Kaki, 2018 Finance Alum, Financial Analyst in the CFO Development program * Victor Rojas, 2019 Marketing Alum, Analyst, Education Services PLEASE REGISTER ON HANDSHAKE SO WE KNOW YOU ARE COMING, and we have a correct count for the food order.  Students may access IsenbergWorks to view a list of participating companies. Learn about finance opportunities at Dell, including the CFO Internship Program and Finance Development Program (FDP)! Students selected for campus interviews with Raytheon on October 2nd in Isenberg are STRONGLY ENCOURAGED to attend this session. Students selected for campus interviews with Target on October 2nd in Isenberg are STRONGLY ENCOURAGED to attend this session. Hilton invites you to connect with our team to learn more about the exciting world of hospitality! Please join us for "Hilton Day" where we look forward to sharing more on our exciting internship programs available to passional college students just like you! Learn more about marketing-related employment and internship opportunities at Dell EMC! Students of all majors are invited to attend. Jessica Auger, OIM, 2017 Asset Management & Operations Intern, Sanofi Read more about Jessica View all profiles You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.