Williams development driver Jamie Chadwick is named as one of four women to drive in Extreme E, which kicks off in Greenland in 2021. The funeral of Formula 2 racer Anthoine Hubert, who died in a high-speed crash at Spa in August, was held on Tuesday. Watch as freestyle motocross athletes, Josh Sheehan, Jackson Strong and Luc Ackermann complete the first ever three-rider double backflip train. Series leader Jonathan Rea is denied a hat-trick at the Portugal World Superbike round as Alvaro Bautista wins the second feature race. Check out the BBC Sport Live Guide for details of all the forthcoming live sport on the BBC. Watch the documentary as British racing driver Katherine Legge is out to prove that in racing, male or female shouldn't matter as 'the car doesn't know the difference'. One year on from the crash that left him paralysed, 'flying doctor' Allister MacSorley completes a lap of the Armoy Road Races course. As part of BBC Sport's #ChangeTheGame campaign, racing driver Katherine Legge discusses how she forged a career in motorsport. Isle of Man TT lap record holder Peter Hickman explains that he has to adapt his riding style to compete on the Mountain Course. Britain's Billy Monger says racing gave him the "extra motivation" in his recovery from a crash which caused both his legs to be amputated. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you Follow the Formula E season across the BBC with full race calendar, results and TV and online coverage times. Full calendar, results and standings for the 2019 World Superbikes Championship. Full MotoGP calendar, results and standings for the 19 races of the 2019 season. Full schedule, results and standings for the inaugural 2019 W Series, the first women-only racing series. Visit the Elite League's official website Latest news, video and analysis 'England will plan racism response' F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France Bayliss reflects on time with England I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad