Financial aid is available through UMass Financial Aid Services and may be comprised of different types of awards. Financial Aid Services is committed to working with students and families to provide the best possible financial resources available. Financial Aid Services can assist you with any questions you may have regarding your financial aid award, student employment, debt management, scholarship searches and financing options that may be available for your college education. There are several offices on campus which provide information to students about resources for funding their education. Unlike financial aid for U.S. undergraduate students, aid to U.S. graduate students is limited to loans and work-study. To qualify for these programs, the Free Application for Financial Aid Form, available in the Financial Aid Office, 255 Whitmore, must be sent to the appropriate offices. The Office of Financial Aid Services provides information about various loans, employment and scholarship programs to which students can apply. Many loan programs and all federal aid programs require that applicants be citizens or permanent residents, making international students ineligible to apply. Financial Aid Services may also be able to inform you about part-time job search programs and can provide debt management information.  Located at: 225 Whitmore Administration Building Open Monday – Friday, 8AM – 4PM Phone: 413.545.0801  The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master’s degree program in nursing and Doctor of Nursing Practice degree program at the University of Massachusetts Amherst College of Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The baccalaureate degree program is fully approved by the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Nursing. The University of Massachusetts Amherst is accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE; formerly the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges).     