Jump to navigation Welcome, students! I am excited and honored to begin my first semester as dean of the Isenberg School of Management. I am also looking forward to meeting and getting to know Isenberg students over the coming year. Without question, Isenberg shines brightly among the nation’s top public business schools. At the end of the day, our strategy and success have been driven by the talent of our faculty, students, staff, and alumni. It’s a righteous circle: Our students are better and better, our faculty are more accomplished, and our alumni—with good reason—are prouder and prouder. This semester, I am happy to welcome Isenberg’s best-ever cohorts of new students, both undergraduate and graduate. And welcome to seven new tenure track professors! They and their fellow faculty members are the engine that drives so much of what we do, including our vibrant PhD program. But, as the saying goes, we can’t rest on our laurels and we must continue to strive to new heights. In our endeavors, we are fortunate to possess exceptional leadership across academic departments, support units, and student organizations. We are also fortunate to have an excellent senior leadership team, including Senior Associate Dean Lisa Masteralexis, and Associate Deans Bradley Bennett, Bill Brown, Linda Enghagen, George Milne, and Nefertiti Walker. I want to personally thank this team for their support. We also owe a great deal to my recent predecessors, Tom Moliterno and Mark Fuller. Their vision has been a big part of Isenberg’s success. We are also the beneficiaries of a notable new building, largely funded by our alumni. In addition to its significant academic resources, the Business Innovation Hub has brought us renewed pride and an enhanced identity beyond our walls. This beautiful space will allow us to host a number of fantastic student-centric events this fall, including our first Inclusive Leadership Summit, which will explore best practices and trends in business October 18. Multiple career-exploration events—including the Finance Department’s inaugural “Beyond Your Degree: Careers in Finance” day September 21—will take place in the Hub as well, and the amazing McCormack Executive-in-Residence will feature long-time NBA Commissioner David Stern on October 17. Lastly, join us for Homecoming weekend on October 25 and 26 to cheer on our Minutemen in hockey and football games! It’s bound to be memorable. So, I trust, will my first semester as Isenberg’s dean. It is truly an honor and a privilege to lead a business school that has so much going for it. That, above all, owes it success to Isenberg’s talented, dedicated community and “can-do” culture. All the best for the Fall semester! Anne P. Massey You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.