The manufacturer of painkiller OxyContin stands accused of helping fuel a deadly US crisis. The manufacturer of painkiller OxyContin stands accused of helping fuel a deadly US crisis. The boy, 4, was taken from the Florida couple after they skipped his chemotherapy and fled the state. The president says his administration will implement strong rules to protect "innocent children". The number of new cases of type 2 diabetes is stable, or even falling, a study suggests. Doctors believe some women with repeat infections could benefit from the procedure. The gift will create new facilities at the clinic which is named after the author's mother. Half of those taking drugs including strong painkillers and sleeping pills are on them for more than a year. The manufacturer of painkiller OxyContin stands accused of helping fuel a deadly US crisis. The boy, 4, was taken from the Florida couple after they skipped his chemotherapy and fled the state. The president says his administration will implement strong rules to protect "innocent children". The number of new cases of type 2 diabetes is stable, or even falling, a study suggests. Doctors believe some women with repeat infections could benefit from the procedure. The gift will create new facilities at the clinic which is named after the author's mother. Half of those taking drugs including strong painkillers and sleeping pills are on them for more than a year. The boy, 4, was taken from the Florida couple after they skipped his chemotherapy and fled the state. The president says his administration will implement strong rules to protect "innocent children". The number of new cases of type 2 diabetes is stable, or even falling, a study suggests. One survivor who struggled to access support says the service could help prevent further "psychological damage". The DJ and presenter reveals he's been living with kidney failure for 18 months and needs a transplant. A trust that provides health care in parts of South Cumbria has been rated as "requiring improvement" again after an inspection by the Care Quality Commission . The inspectors highlighted concerns at the Lancashire Care trust over "patient safety and privacy" and found 37 issues that must be dealt with immediately. The report said staff were caring and there were examples of outstanding treatment in dental services and the child and adolescent mental health ward. Lisa Parratt says she was "gutted" when told she was "too heavy" for a personal trainer's classes. The Care Quality Commission says Lancashire Care NHS Foundation Trust still "requires improvement". Carl Sargeant died days after being sacked as a minister in the Welsh Government. Campaigners are calling for patients in other parts of the UK to be allowed to access the treatment. Hugo Allen has bipolar disorder and claims he was abused by staff at a mental health hospital. Hannah Richardson BBC News education reporter Ofsted suggests pupils who may misbehave when they get to secondary should be identified and supported. Sinead Tinker was given months to live in an episode of the soap this week. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News