We are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. If you register a domain with Bluehost when signing up for a hosting account, there is a domain fee that is non-refundable. This not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. Regardless of the status of your hosting service, you'll be free to manage it, transfer it after any required lock periods, or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. You retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you elect to extend it. Starting at $7.99 $3.95/month* * Special intro offer and 30-day money-back guarantee One of the top recommended WordPress providers by WordPress.org. Enjoy hassle-free WordPress installation on all accounts. Trained, in-house experts are here to help 24/7. Our robust help center includes guides, video tutorials and more. Try us and love us, or get a refund within 30 days of signing up. Your satisfaction is our top priority. Get access to marketing services, tools, and paid ad credits to boost your website's global reach. Supercharge your WordPress hosting with detailed website analytics, marketing tools, security, and data backups all in one place. Our in-house, expert team is always on hand to help answer your questions, get you started, and grow your presence online. You can call, chat or email us any time! 888-401-4678 Chat Together, let's build you a better website. Our in-house experts are just part of the reason Bluehost is the ideal home for your WordPress website. We're here to help you succeed! We are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. Complete hosting solutions starting at $3.95/month* * The promotional price is for the first term only and renews at the regular rate. * 30-Day Money-Back Guarantee does not extend to domain names. © 2002-2019 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. The promotional price is for the first term only and plans renew at the regular rate. Your satisfaction is our top priority and we're confident you'll be pleased with our services. Still, if you try us and decide your account does not sufficiently meet your needs, you can cancel within 30 days for a refund as follows. The browser version you are using is no longer supported. Please upgrade for the best site experience.