We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes my spirit animal dint make the ark• emotional support hooman •follow hashtaggers •Humpty was pushed You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo "Roll down" a window even though its still a motion we use You mean like manual widows with the little hand crank?? yup. i know kids who have never seen one but do that motion when they want you to put window down. i asked them why dont you do the motion you know? Really?! I’m 17 and one of my past neighbors who babysat me when I was little had crank windows also I just got a 2013 Kia Rio that has crank windows yup...he is 17 and never saw onepic.twitter.com/IzoUYjTago Dang that’s crazy! My car is only 10 years old and it has manual windows. This sounds more like a "privileged kids" thing. pretty much a standard option nowadays Ugh, I still do. My brother's car is a roll down and the A.C. is crap. becoming rare Rolling is faster than button windows. Also pretty cool handle to rest left hand on while driving... yup It is actually hahahah Im in my teens and i still use one. I find it fun racing to who can crank their window up faster The Greatest Voice Retweeted The Greatest Voice I just talked about #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo Btw I am the FUNNIEST MAN on twitter! If you agree please retweet? https://twitter.com/JTthepodcaster/status/1171943231220670464?s=19 … The Greatest Voice added, I tried telling a young couple their break light was out, but they did not understand the gesture to roll down their window   Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.