We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes It’s our job to #GoThere & tell the most difficult stories. Join us! For more breaking news updates follow @CNNBRK & Download our app ?http://cnn.com/apps You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. "2020 is a reset election, get back to some normalcy," says fmr. Ohio Gov. John Kasich. "You got to be really careful about what your message is. And if your message makes people uncomfortable even though they don't like the President, they might say, 'I don't like any of them.'"pic.twitter.com/IbWE26EJhP I can’t eat pancakes without syrup. Me too wish Kasich would have won instead of Trump... 25% is more than NARROW #FlipperHandspic.twitter.com/qqIbC3Cysc Because Kasich would still vote for Trump, for all his bellyaching. https://zee.gl/LWAZBW8W normalcy is gone forever. pic.twitter.com/xtmBZo4aE1 CNN narrowly = Landslide for other side. Maybe? He should win "I agree with you" You wouldn't be allowed on tv if you didn't 62%-37%https://www.newsobserver.com/news/politics-government/article234914277.html … Kasich should run on a bipartisan ticket with a moderate dem. Secure borders, but compassionate immigration policy. Econ growth with environ priorities. Tougher background checks, limit high capacity magazines. Etc. Find the middle ground. Normal is why Trump got elected. Yep, I don’t like any of them He is 100% right  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.