WMO is resolved in its efforts to achieve gender equality, empower women and build climate resilient societies. To this end, it is committed to mainstreaming gender in its governance, working structures, programmes and service delivery. It is also determined to attract more women in the fields of science and meteorology. The objective of gender equality at WMO is to fully realize the professional and human potential of both women and men through equal employment opportunities and to provide improved environmental services that are responsive and sensitive to women’s and men’s needs and will make a difference to their lives.  The WMO Policy on Gender Equality was adopted by the seventeenth World Meteorological Congress in June 2015 as Annex to Resolution 59 (Cg-17). Its purpose is to promote, encourage and facilitate gender equality across WMO and to establish a mechanism by which progress can be measured. Originally formulated in 2007, the Policy was amended in 2015 to incorporate the outcomes of the Conference on the Gender Dimensions of Weather and Climate Services (Conference Report), address gaps identified in the Progress Report, and reflect existing good practice. The WMO Gender Equality Policy is operationalized through the WMO Gender Action Plan which identifies concrete actions for all parts of the Organization (Secretariat, constituent bodies, Members). The Action Plan is reviewed every four years, progress in implementation measured and priority actions for the following four years identified. Concrete actions are provided in seven policy areas: governance, strategic planning, monitoring and compliance, capacity development, human resources, communication and partnerships, resource tracking and allocation, and service provision. The first WMO Gender Action Plan was endorsed in June 2016 by the WMO Executive Council (Decision 77 (EC-68)), outlining priority actions for 2016-2019. An updated Gender Action Plan was adopted by the eighteenth World Meteorological Congress in June 2019, setting priority actions for 2020-2023, ranging from approving a target of 40% female representation in governance, systematic collection and use of sex-disaggregated data, strengthening capacity on gender analysis, developing women's leadership skills through Women's Leadership Workshops, promoting female role models working in meteorology, hydrology, climatology and environmental science etc. The Executive Council Advisory Panel of Experts on Gender Mainstreaming is the main body overseeing, advising and reporting on the implementation of gender mainstreaming activities at all levels of WMO. Its terms of reference are defined in Resolution 2 (EC-67) of the WMO Executive Council. The WMO Secretariat assists the Panel in all its activities, collects data and compiles relevant reports, coordinates gender mainstreaming action across the Organization, and operationalizes the decisions and recommendations of WMO governance bodies with respect to gender mainstreaming. Congress and Executive Council Constituent Bodies Technical Commissions Regional Associations  EC-68 endorses the WMO Gender Action Plan and agrees on a set of priority actions for the period 2016-2019. Cg-XVII adopts an updated WMO Policy on Gender Equality. 1945 Charter of the United Nations UN support for the rights of women began with the Organization's founding Charter. In its Preamble, the signatory countries reaffirmed “faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small”. 1946 Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) On 21 June 1946, the Commission on the Status of Women, a functional commission of the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), was created. It is the principal global policy-making body dedicated exclusively to gender equality and the advancement of women. Its mandate is “to ensure women’s equality and to promote women’s rights.” It “prepares recommendations and reports to the Council on promoting women's rights in political, economic, civil, social and educational fields” and focus on “urgent problems requiring immediate attention in the field of women’s rights”. 1948 Universal Declation of Human Rights In its Preamble, the Declaration is explicit in stating “equal rights of men and women.” Article 2 further asserts that “everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status”. 1952 Convention on the Political Rights of Women This Convention aims to implement the principle of equal rights for men and women stated in UN Charter. It recognizes the right of women to take part in governments, to vote, to be eligible in all elections and to exercise all public functions on equal terms with men, without any discrimination. 1967 UN General Assembly Declaration on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women Although not legally binding, this text is an important precursor to the 1979 Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women. It states that discrimination against women constitutes an offence to human dignity and, in that sense, encourages States to take measures to abolish all laws and practices which are discriminatory against women in terms of political rights, civil law, education and economic and social life. 1974 Declaration on the Protection of Women and Children in Emergency and Armed Conflict This Declaration called on States involved in armed conflict and military operations to make all efforts to spare women and children from the ravages of war. All the necessary steps must be taken to ensure the prohibition of measures such as persecution, torture, punitive measures, degrading treatment and violence, particularly against women and children. 1975 First World Conference on Women (Mexico City, Mexico) At this meeting, a new era was launched in the global effort to promote women’s equality. Three objectives were identified in relation to equality, peace and development: (1) full gender equality and the elimination of gender discrimination; (2) the integration and full participation of women in development; and (3) an increased contribution by women towards strengthening world peace. 1979 Convention on the Elimination of All Form of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) This Convention defines what constitutes discrimination against women, establishes an agenda for national action to end such discrimination and outlines a set of rights for women. By signing this agreement, States commit themselves to incorporate the principle of gender equality in their legal system, to ensure the effective protection of women against discrimination, and to eliminate all discriminatory acts against women. 1980 Second World Conference on Women (Copenhagen, Denmark) The Second World Conference brought together States to review and appraise the 1975 World Plan of Action. The conference recognized there was a disparity between women's guaranteed rights and their capacity to exercise them. Participants identified three spheres in which measures were needed: equal access to education; equal access to employment opportunities; and equal access to adequate health care services. 1982 Declaration on the Participation of Women in Promoting International Peace and Cooperation This declaration recognized the important role played by women in the promotion of international peace and cooperation and in the restructuring of international economic relations. It encouraged States to take appropriate measures to ensure women participation in economic, social, cultural, civil and political affairs, and to provide them practical and equal opportunities to take part in decision-making processes. 1985 Third World Conference on Women (Nairobi, Kenya) The Third World Conference evaluated progress made during the UN Decade for Women and explored ways for overcoming obstacles in the areas of equality, peace and development. It recognized that gender equality was not an isolated issue but encompassed all areas of human activity. It was necessary for women to participate in all spheres, not only in those relating to gender. 1990 UN ECOSOC Resolution E/RES/1990/15 This resolution arised from the first review of the implementation of the Nairobi Forward-Looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women. It recommended States, political parties, trade unions and other representative groups to increase the proportion of women in leadership positions and to provide recruitment and training programmes to women, with the aim of attaining equal representation by the year 2000. 1994 International Conference on Population and Development (Cairo, Egypt) The Programme of Action adopted at the conference endorsed a new strategy that focuses on meeting the needs of individual women and men rather than on achieving demographic targets. The key to the new approach is empowering women and providing them with more choices through expanded access to education and health services, skill development and employment, and through their full involvement in policy- and decision-making processes at all levels. 1995 Fourth World Conference on Women (Beijing, China) The Conference resulted in the adoption of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, a document considered to be the most comprehensive agenda for women's empowerment. It contains strategic objectives and actions in 12 critical areas of concern: women and poverty, education and training of women, women and health, violence against women, women and armed conflict, women and the economy, women in power and decision-making, institutional mechanisms for the advancement of women, human rights of women, women and the media, women and the environment, and the girl-child. Following Beijing, governments committed for the first time to the incorporation of a gender perspective in all aspects of public policy formulation and implementation. The Conference also introduced the gender perspective into development programming, with targeted programmes for women’s empowerment and gender mainstreaming. 1997 ECOSOC Agreed Conclusions to Mainstream a Gender Perspective into all Policies and Programmes of the UN System This document defined the concept of gender mainstreaming as “the process of assessing the implications for women and men of any planned action, including legislation, policies or programmes, in all areas and at all levels”, thus establishing some important principles to be respected. Furthermore, it outlined some recommendations to ensure the full integration of the gender perspective in UN activities. 1999 Optional Protocol on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (Op-CEDAW) The Optional Protocol is a subsidiary agreement to CEDAW, which established individual complaint and inquiry mechanisms. The signatory parties are enquired to abolish discriminatory laws in the field of health, employment and education, and to facilitate complaints and investigations led by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women. 2000 Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) The MDGs derive from the UN Millennium Declaration adopted by the UN General Assembly on 8 September 2000. This document recognizes gender equality and empowerment of women as “effective ways to combat poverty, hunger and disease and to stimulate development that is truly sustainable”. MDG 3 aims at eliminating gender disparity in primary and secondary education by 2015. MDG 5 focuses on maternal mortality and, since 2005, on universal access to reproductive health. 2005 World Summit (New York, USA) The World Summit led to the adoption of additional targets and indicators under the MDGs, including reproductive health and rights and sex-disaggregated data on informal employment. The outcome document was issued as General Assembly resolution /60/1. 2006 System-Wide Policy on Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women Adopted by the UN Chief Executives Board for Coordination (CEB), this policy aims to accelerate progress in gender equality and women’s empowerment in all activities of the UN system. Six key elements have been set out: (1) strengthening accountability for gender equality, (2) enhancing results-based management for gender equality, (3) establishing oversight through monitoring, evaluation and reporting, (4) allocating sufficient human and financial resources, (5) developing and/or strengthening staff capacity and competency in gender mainstreaming and (6) ensuring coherence/coordination and knowledge/information management at the global, regional and national levels. 2012 Decision 23/CP.18 on Promoting Gender Balance and Improving the Participation of Women in United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change (UNFCCC) Negotiations and in the Representation of Parties in Bodies Established Pursuant to the Convention or the Kyoto Protocol At the Climate Change Conference in Doha, the Conference of the Parties (COP-18) adopted a decision on promoting gender balance and improving the participation of women in UNFCCC negotiations and in the representation of Parties in bodies established pursuant to the Convention or the Kyoto Protocol. Parties to the Convention are encouraged to include more women as candidates for positions within these bodies and to strive for gender balance in the delegations participating in meetings. The decision also provides for review and reporting mechanisms to track progress in meeting the goal of gender balance, and positions the issue of gender and climate change as a standing item on the agenda of the COP sessions. 2012 UN System-Wide Action Plan on Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (SWAP) Adopted in April 2012, the SWAP aims to enhance the implementation of the 2006 UN CEB Policy. All UN entities participate in the process which involves self-assessment along 15 performance indicators in six major areas: accountability, results-based management, oversight, human and financial resources, capacity, and knowledge exchange and networking. The reporting framework also includes a timeline for improvement, responsible units, and an estimate of resources needed. Entities are expected to meet all requirements by 2017 (for technical agencies and entities with less than 500 employees, the deadline is 2019).  2015  Beijing+20 (20th Anniversary of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action) Beijing +20 is the process to assess the implementation by governments and other stakeholders of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, twenty years after its adoption at the 4th World Conference on Women in Beijing, China in 1995. The UN Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) is the main body that monitors, reviews and evaluates implementation. At its 59th session in March 2015, CSW reviewed progress, including the outcomes of the 23rd special session of the General Assembly, the first five-year assessment conducted after the adoption of the Platform for Action, which highlighted further actions and initiatives. The session also addressed opportunities for achieving gender equality and the empowerment of women in the post-2015 development agenda.  At international, national and local levels, there is a drive to improve access for women to technology, information, science education and technical training and to strengthen the position of women scientists and technologists. Ensuring that women have equal access to science education and technology is an essential catalyst to ensure that the developers and users of weather, water and climate services provided by WMO and its Members serve the global community – men, women, boys, girls. Women and men are affected differently by weather and climate. Gender sensitivities are particularly pronounced in the areas of disaster risk reduction, public health, water resources management, and agriculture and food security. A good practice is a specific action or a set of actions in advancing gender equality and the empowerement of women which has demonstrable results with quantatative and/or qualitative evidence of impact as well as potential to be successfully adapted and replicated elsewhere. For the latest news, videos, photos and upcoming events on gender equality. Watch the latest videos on gender equality. Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls - Women and men are affected differently by weather and climate. Gender sensitivities are particularly pronounced in the areas of disaster risk reduction, public health, water resources management, and agriculture and food security. WMO aims to provide improved weather, climate, hydrological, marine and other environmental services that are responsive and sensitive to women’s and men’s needs and will make a difference to their lives. The Organization is resolved in its efforts to achieve gender equality, empower women and build climate resilient societies. To this end, it is committed to mainstreaming gender in its governance, working structures, programmes and service delivery. It is also determined to attract more women in the fields of science and meteorology. The objective of gender equality at WMO is to fully realize the professional and human potential of both women and men through equal employment opportunities.   Selected Resources on Gender, Climate, Water and the Environment Gender and Climate Gender, Climate and Disaster Risk Reduction Gender, Climate and Health Gender, Climate, Agriculture and Food Security Gender and Water Gender and the Environment Training Resources on Gender Mainstreaming This course aims to develop and/or strengthen awareness and understanding of gender equality and women’s empowerment as a first step towards behavioural change and the integration of a gender perspective into everyday work for all UN staff at headquarters, regional and country levels. It provides an introduction to the concepts, international framework, and methods for working toward gender equality and women’s empowerment. It also offers users the opportunity to make links between gender and specific thematic areas such as work; education; political participation; emergencies; peace and security; sexual and reproductive health; sexual and gender diversity and human rights; and violence against women. The course will help you better understand the linkages between gender and the environment. It will provide you with the knowledge and tools to mainstream gender, and to be an effective change-maker for sustainable development. It will also give you facts and figures, and a better understanding of the global international frameworks related to gender and environment. It is a “one-stop-shop” for information and illustrations on gender dimensions linked to biodiversity, climate change, land degradation, international waters, and chemicals and waste. This online course has been developed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and UN Women to build organizational capacity towards attaining results in promoting gender equality. It consists of 8 modules on a range of subjects and aims to contribute to a common understanding of terminology, core principles and effective approaches that help organizations work together on gender programming. The course is interactive and designed to be completed in about 3 hours. A printable course transcript is available. Useful Links on Gender and Women's Empowerment UN Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women UN Secretariat and Inter-Agency Bodies Programmes and Funds Specialized Agencies Treaty Bodies, Conventions and Mandates Intergovernmental Bodies UN Research Institutes Other International and Regional Organizations Empowerment: Refers to increasing the spiritual, political, social or economic strength of individuals and communities. Empowerment of women and girls concerns women and girls gaining power and control over their own lives. It involves awareness-raising, building self-confidence, expansion of choices, increased access to and control over resources and actions to transform the structures and institutions which reinforce and perpetuate gender discrimination and inequality. The core of empowerment lies in the ability of a person to control his/her own destiny. This implies that to be empowered women must not only have equal capabilities (such as education and health) and equal access to resources and opportunities (such as land and employment), but they must also have the agency to use these rights, capabilities, resources and opportunities to make strategic choices and decisions (such as is provided through leadership opportunities and participation in political institutions). Source: Gender Equality, UN Coherence and You (UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF, UN Women) Gender and Sex: Sex refers to the biological differences between male and female bodies. Gender refers to the sociologically and culturally based distinction between men and women. One‘s gender is therefore most often comprised of those roles and attributes that are not purely “natural” or biologically determined, but are rather dictated by norms and traditions. Because gender is not biologically given, the attributes of both male and female gender can (and do) change over time and across cultures. It is also important to emphasize that the concept of gender is not interchangeable with women. Gender refers to both women and men, and the relations between them. Promotion of gender equality should concern and engage men as well as women. Sources: Gender Mainstreaming in Practice: A Toolkit andhttp://www.un.org/womenwatch/osagi/pdf/factsheet2.pdf Gender Analysis: Gender analysis is a critical examination of how differences in gender roles, activities, needs, opportunities and rights/entitlements affect men, women, girls and boys in certain situation or contexts. Gender analysis examines the relationships between females and males and their access to and control of resources and the constraints they face relative to each other. A gender analysis should be integrated into all sector assessments or situational analyses to ensure that gender-based injustices and inequalities are not exacerbated, and that where possible, greater equality and justice in gender relations are promoted. Source: Gender Equality, UN Coherence and You (UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF, UN Women Gender Balance: The ratio of women to men in any given situation. Gender balance is achieved when there are approximately equal numbers of men and women present or participating. This is sometimes also referred to as gender parity (see below). Source: UNDP, Gender Mainstreaming in Practice: A Toolkit Gender Blindness: is the failure to recognize that the roles and responsibilities of men/boys and women/girls are given to them in specific social, cultural, economic and political contexts and backgrounds. Projects, programmes, policies and attitudes which are gender blind do not take into account these different roles and diverse needs, maintain status quo, and will not help transform the unequal structure of gender relations. Source: Gender Equality, UN Coherence and You (UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF, UN Women Gender Equality: Refers to the equal rights, responsibilities and opportunities of women and men and girls and boys. Equality does not mean that women and men will become the same but that women’s and men’s rights, responsibilities and opportunities will not depend on whether they are born male or female. Gender equality implies that the interests, needs and priorities of both women and men are taken into consideration, recognizing the diversity of different groups of women and men. Gender equality is not a women’s issue but should concern and fully engage men as well as women. Equality between women and men is seen both as a human rights issue and as a precondition for, and indicator of, sustainable people-centred development. Source: http://www.un.org/womenwatch/osagi/conceptsandefinitions.htm Gender Equity: is the process of being fair to men and women, boys and girls and is about equality of outcomes and results. Gender equity may involve the use of temporary special measures to compensate for historical or systemic bias or discrimination. It refers to differential treatment that is fair and positively addresses a bias or disadvantage that is due to gender roles or norms or differences between the sexes. It is a means to ensure that women and men, girls and boys have an equal chance not only at the starting point but also when reaching the finishing line. It is about the fair and just treatment of both sexes that takes into account the different needs of the men and women, cultural barriers and (past) discrimination of the specific group. Source: Gender Equality, UN Coherence and You (UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF, UN Women Gender Mainstreaming: Mainstreaming a gender perspective is the process of assessing the implications for women and men of any planned action, including legislation, policies or programmes, in all areas and at all levels. It is a strategy for making women’s as well as men’s concerns and experiences an integral dimension of the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies and programmes in all political, economic and societal spheres so that women and men benefit equally and inequality is not perpetuated. The ultimate goal is to achieve gender equality. Source: ECOSOC agreed conclusions 1997/2 Gender Neutral: Gender-neutral policies are not specifically aimed at either men or women and are assumed to affect both sexes equally. However, they may actually be gender-blind (see above). Source: UNDP, Gender Mainstreaming in Practice: A Toolkit Gender Norms: Gender norms are the accepted attributes and characteristics of male and female gendered identity at a particular point in time for a specific society or community. They are the standards and expectations to which gender identity generally conforms, within a range that defines a particular society, culture and community at that point in time. Gender norms are ideas about how men and women should be and act. Internalized early in life, gender norms can establish a life cycle of gender socialization and stereotyping. Source: Gender Equality, UN Coherence and You (UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF, UN Women Gender Parity: is a numerical concept. Gender parity concerns relative equality in terms of numbers and proportions of men and women, girls and boys. Gender parity addresses the ratio of female-to-male values (or males-to-females, in certain cases) of a given indicator. Source: Gender Equality, UN Coherence and You (UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF, UN Women Gender Perspective: Using a ‘gender perspective’ entails approaching or examining an issue, paying particular attention to the potentially different ways in which men and women are or might be affected. This is also called using or looking through a ‘gender lens.’ Source: UNDP, Gender Mainstreaming in Practice: A Toolkit Gender Relations: The social relationships and power distribution between men and women in both the private (personal) and public spheres. Source: UNDP, Gender Mainstreaming in Practice: A Toolkit Gender Roles: are social and behavioural norms that, within a specific culture, are widely considered to be socially appropriate for individuals of a specific sex. These often determine the traditional responsibilities and tasks assigned to men, women, boys and girls. Gender-specific roles are often conditioned by household structure, access to resources, specific impacts of the global economy, occurrence of conflict or disaster, and other locally relevant factors such as ecological conditions. Source: Gender Equality, UN Coherence and You (UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF, UN Women Glass Ceiling: refers to impediments that prevent women from rising to top positions in an organization, whether public or private. Thus, this includes the political, public, judicial, social, and economic domains. The term “glass” is used as these impediments are apparently invisible and are usually linked to the maintenance of the status quo in organizations as opposed to transparent and equal career advancement opportunities for women and men within organizations. Source:Gender Mainstreaming in Practice: A Toolkit Human Rights-Based Approach (HRBA): A human rights-based approach entails consciously and systematically paying attention to human rights in all aspects of programme development. A HRBA is a conceptual framework for the process of human development that is normatively based on international human rights standards and operationally directed to promoting and protecting human rights. The objective of the HRBA is to empower people (rights-holders) to realize their rights and strengthen the State (duty-bearers) to comply with their human rights obligations and duties. States’ obligations to human rights require them to respect, protect and fulfil women’s and girls’ rights, along with the rights of men and boys. Source: Gender Equality, UN Coherence and You (UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF, UN Women Sex: see ‘Gender and Sex’ above Sex-Disaggregated Data: Data that is cross-classified by sex, presenting information separately for men and women, boys and girls. When data is not disaggregated by sex, it is more difficult to identify real and potential inequalities. Sex-disaggregated data is necessary for effective gender analysis. Source: Gender Equality, UN Coherence and You (UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF, UN Women © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)