You may be eligible for funding through grants and fellowships offered by the Graduate School to support the research and scholarly activities of our graduate students. The Graduate School at UMass Amherst offers two fellowships to support the recruitment, retention and success of outstanding graduate students from historically underrepresented groups: the Spaulding-Smith Fellowship for STEM students, and the Research Enhancement and Leadership (REAL) Fellowship for doctoral students. Predissertation Grants of up to $1,000 offer early career doctoral students the opportunity to evaluate the feasibility of planned dissertation research, generate pilot data, or establish the necessary networks to carry out planned dissertation research, among other activities. UMass graduate students enrolled in a campus-based doctoral program who have completed at least one semester of graduate study at UMass Amherst at the time of application, but have not yet filed their dissertation prospectus, are eligible to apply. UMass doctoral students are eligible to receive a Predissertation Research Grant only once. Applicants who were not awarded a grant in a previous application cycle are eligible to reapply, provided they still meet the eligibility requirements. Students may accept only one Predissertation, Fieldwork, or Dissertation Research Grant from the Graduate School in an academic year. Funds could support expenses related to: The student must complete: The faculty advisor reviews the completed Budget Table, writes a letter of recommendation and submits it online. The letter should address the following: To allow for sufficient planning time, we recommend students submit an application for a Predissertation Grant at least three months before funds are needed. The application deadline is 11:59 PM on the posted due date—all required materials (including the advisor’s letter of recommendation) must be received by this time. Awards will be announced by the end of the semester in which the application was submitted. Awards will be made based on the merit of the proposed research and the potential for activities funded by Predissertation Grants to provide a strong foundation for the student's future dissertation research. Proposals written in clear language, with realistic and cost-efficient budgets, are more likely to be funded. Eligible expenses include, but are not limited to: Ineligible expenses under this grant include: In most cases, award funds will be disbursed as reimbursements, although some expenses such as equipment purchases must be paid directly by the University. Students should be prepared to pay for expenses out-of-pocket and received reimbursement when activities are completed. Awarded funds are managed by the student’s department; awardees must communicate with their department’s business manager prior to spending any grant funds. Grant recipients will be required to submit a brief report at the end of the grant period to account for how grant funds were spent. These competitive grants are awarded as a supplement to the three Graduate School Grants (Predissertation, Fieldwork, and Dissertation Research). Recipients must first be awarded a Graduate School Grant, then their Supplement for Travel with Children application will be considered. Supplements of up to $500 are intended to support UMass Amherst graduate student parents to cover expenses incurred while traveling with children under the age of six during activities funded by a Graduate School Grant. Applicants must certify that requested funds are above and beyond normal dependent care expenses (e.g. normal day care or care by a family member will not be covered). To apply for a Supplement for Travel with Children, complete the Travel with Children Budget Template and submit it with your main grant application. Supplements for Travel with Children will be provided as a non-working fellowship, which is considered taxable income and may impact need-based financial aid, including student loans. Students should contact Financial Aid with questions on how awarded funds may impact loan eligibility. Questions should be addressed to grant coordinator, Heidi Bauer-Clapp. Dissertation Research Grants provide up to $1,000 for costs associated with data collection or analysis. UMass Amherst doctoral students who are enrolled in a campus-based degree program and have achieved candidacy at the time of application are eligible to apply. Applicants must also be in good academic standing. UMass doctoral students are eligible to receive this grant only once. Applicants who were not awarded a grant in a previous application cycle are eligible to reapply. Students may accept only one Predissertation, Fieldwork, or Dissertation Research Grant from the Graduate School in an academic year. The student must complete: The faculty advisor reviews the completed Budget Table, writes a letter of recommendation, and submits it online. The letter should address the following: To allow sufficient planning time, we recommend students submit an application at least three months before funds are needed. The application deadline is 11:59 PM on the posted due date—all required materials (including the letter of recommendation) must be received by this time. Award decisions will be announced by the end of the semester in which the application was submitted. Eligible expenses under this grant include, but are not limited to: Ineligible expenses include: In most cases, award funds will be disbursed as reimbursements, although some expenses such as equipment purchases must be paid directly by the University. Students should be prepared to pay for expenses out-of-pocket and received reimbursement when activities are completed. Awarded funds are managed by the student’s department; awardees must communicate with their department’s business manager prior to spending any grant funds. Grant recipients will be required to submit a brief report at the end of the grant period to account for how grant funds were spent. These competitive grants are awarded as a supplement to the three Graduate School Grants (Predissertation, Fieldwork, and Dissertation Research). Recipients must first be awarded a Graduate School Grant, then their Supplement for Travel with Children application will be considered. Supplements of up to $500 are intended to support UMass Amherst graduate student parents to cover expenses incurred while traveling with children under the age of six during activities funded by a Graduate School Grant. Applicants must certify that requested funds are above and beyond normal dependent care expenses (e.g. normal day care or care by a family member will not be covered). To apply for a Supplement for Travel with Children, complete the Travel with Children Budget Template and submit it with your main grant application. Supplements for Travel with Children will be provided as a non-working fellowship, which is considered taxable income and may impact need-based financial aid, including student loans. Students should contact Financial Aid with questions on how awarded funds may impact loan eligibility. Questions should be addressed to grant coordinator, Heidi Bauer-Clapp.  These grants of up to $5,000 provide support for fieldwork expenses. For the purpose of this grant, fieldwork is defined as data collection that takes place for an extended period of time (weeks or months) outside the western Massachusetts geographical area. These grants are not designed to fund data analysis, only expenses related to data collection. UMass Amherst doctoral students who are enrolled in a campus-based degree program and in good academic standing are eligible to apply. UMass doctoral students are eligible to receive this grant only once. Applicants who were not awarded a grant in a previous application cycle are eligible to reapply. Students may accept only one Predissertation, Fieldwork, or Dissertation Research Grant from the Graduate School in an academic year. The student must complete: The faculty advisor reviews the completed Budget Table, writes a letter of recommendation, and submits it online. The letter should address the following: To allow sufficient planning time, we recommend students submit a Dissertation Fieldwork Grant application at least six months before funds are needed. The application deadline is 11:59 PM on the posted due date. All required materials (including the advisor’s Letter of Recommendation) must be received by this time. Award decisions will be announced by the end of the semester in which the application was submitted. Awards will be made based on the merit of the proposed research; proposals written in clear language, with realistic and cost-efficient budgets, are more likely to be funded. Eligible expenses include (but are not limited to): Ineligible expenses include: In most cases, award funds will be disbursed as reimbursements, although some expenses such as equipment purchases must be paid directly by the University. Awarded funds are managed by the student’s department; awardees must communicate with their department’s business manager prior to spending any grant funds. Grant recipients will be required to submit a brief report at the end of the grant period to account for how grant funds were spent. These competitive grants are awarded as a supplement to the three Graduate School Grants (Predissertation, Fieldwork, and Dissertation Research). Recipients must first be awarded a Graduate School Grant, then their Supplement for Travel with Children application will be considered. Supplements of up to $500 are intended to support UMass Amherst graduate student parents to cover expenses incurred while traveling with children under the age of six during activities funded by a Graduate School Grant. Applicants must certify that requested funds are above and beyond normal dependent care expenses (e.g. normal day care or care by a family member will not be covered). To apply for a Supplement for Travel with Children, complete the Travel with Children Budget Template and submit it with your main grant application. Supplements for Travel with Children will be provided as a non-working fellowship, which is considered taxable income and may impact need-based financial aid, including student loans. Students should contact Financial Aid with questions on how awarded funds may impact loan eligibility. Questions should be addressed to grant coordinator, Heidi Bauer-Clapp. Administered by the Graduate Program Director (GPD) in each department and funded by a block grant from the Graduate School, travel grants support graduate students in their efforts to establish themselves and acquire valuable experiences in their field. Enrolled, matriculated graduate students (including those on Program Fee/Continuous Enrollment) traveling for presentations at conferences, professional meetings, and exhibitions. Applicants must provide verification of acceptance or invitation to present their work to their GPD. These funds are not designed to cover research related expenses. The review and approval process will be managed by departments under the direction of the GPD. GPDs/departments will determine the amount of individual awards, priorities for allocating funding to students, and how many students to fund. Students who anticipate professional travel as described above should check with their GPD on the department process to request funding. These travel grants are processed as a business expense reimbursement. Students who receive funding should check with their business office on specific procedures for reimbursement. GPDs and department business managers will be notified of the amount of their block grant in September. Once you have been notified of the amount of your allocation you may begin to make awards to students. Funds are awarded for the academic year and may be used to cover travel taking place between Sept. 1 and Aug. 31 of that year. Individual grants should be disbursed to students following university business expense reimbursement guidelines. Each department will be required to report annually on their use of Graduate Student Travel Grant funds; departments failing to submit a report will not receive an allocation for the next year. Funds may not be carried over from one academic year to the next. If you have questions or need other assistance, please email Heidi Bauer-Clapp or call 413-545-0669.