Submitted by lclick on Mon, 2014-10-27 08:43 The commercialization landscape has changed dramatically in the 30 years since the birth of academic technology transfer. While corporate licensing remains a pillar to commercializing academic research, fostering local innovation ecosystems through start-up formation has become an equally important pathway. UMass Amherst is committed to growing the economies of Western Massachusetts and the rest of the Commonwealth through entrepreneurship, and the Technology Transfer Office (TTO) is spearheading that effort. We are inspired by a vision of being the tech transfer office of the future, and we are working hard every day to take us to that next level. Our aims are high; we want to be a nationally recognized leader in tech transfer, a vibrant and respected resource for faculty, a driver of entrepreneurism on campus, and the destination of choice for industry. Reaching this level is dependent on us making tech transfer an uplifting and positive experience for faculty, students and companies alike. We continue to look to future needs, building programs and resources that compliment UMass Amherst’s substantial ambitions for expanding its reach and impact locally and nationally. Virtually every tech transfer office wants to move technologies from the lab bench to commercial product development so they can become viable products, processes and services. This benefits the public and has economic payback to the inventors, the sponsors, the start-ups and the university. But a passive administrative approach only gets you so far. Inventing is voluntary; not a single UMass Amherst researcher has to invent, or even let the TTO know they may have made an invention. Similarly, there’s nothing that requires any company or entrepreneur to look to UMass Amherst for new product or company opportunities. If we want to get more disclosures, more corporate licenses and more start-ups, we have to go out and shake things up! We have to reach out and talk with inventors and companies one-on-one, inspire and encourage future entrepreneurs, and provide all of these customers fantastic service so they will come back again and again. Mass Venture Center, Suite 201 100 Venture Way Hadley, MA 01035 Phone: 413-545-3606 Email: tto@umass.edu ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact