We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes I spend most of my time stumbling around Twitter like a drunk toddler in a badly lit unfamiliar room. Follow with extreme caution Are you sure you want to view these Tweets? Viewing Tweets won't unblock @HeinousFace . Next time your feeling bad about your life remember this My big sister in her late 40s spreads lies about me on the internet because she hasn’t got over the “sibling rivalry” thing from childhood I kid you not! 40 odd years of projecting her worst faults on her little brother #1pun The police knocked on my door earlier following up on reports that my dog has been chasing people on a bike and barking aggressively It’s total BS though he can’t even ride a skateboard If everyone could just stop being offended that would be great thank you . Dear Twitter People who crack jokes on the internet do it to have a laugh & hopefully make others laugh too There’s a 99.9% chance they weren’t trying to offend you Unless they’re your ex or something obvs Remember that you choose to be offended. . . Kind Regards U Fester #badjokethursday Apparently my boss isn’t happy with my lazy apathetic attitude Or some old bollocks like that anyway I was nodding off while his lecture droned on to be honest and I really couldn’t give a fuck anyway . . . #badjokethursday When do people stop for lunch in Scotland ? Dunoon . . . . OMG ! 5% power Boing said Uncle Fester . . . . pic.twitter.com/pdMyGabfkQ . I flick the switch on the generator So I could turn you on You better get to know your operator Before you pick that tone https://youtu.be/DlpZ8z1bNfk . Lost all that treasure in an overseas war It just goes to show You don't get what you paid forhttps://youtu.be/1DWiB7ZuLvI . If this doesn’t give you the feels were you even alive in the 90s . . . https://youtu.be/1lyu1KKwC74 . I'm so sick, sick, sick and tired Of working just to be retired I don't want to get that far I don't want your company carhttps://youtu.be/INkPITYdSD0 . Said, I'm not like you And I don't want your advice or your praise Or to move in the ways you do And I never will https://youtu.be/SjzOUf0AEiQ . I ain't good-looking, but I'm someone's child No one can give me the air that's mine to breathe https://youtu.be/GjwRIjrC4io . Now that we know where we’re going baby we can lay back and enjoy the ride . . .https://youtu.be/hVzUFNWIYM0 . Destruction leads to a very rough road but it also breeds creation . . .https://youtu.be/_RyaTg6f2io . I love an impromptu drum roll me https://youtu.be/0trh9Y598fM . My local pub football team are sponsored by Whiskers Pet Food I’m not sure what division they are in, I thinks it’s the cats protection league . . . Over shoulder boulder holders? #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo Building a base in the woods to look at the porno mags you’d found !! #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo Porn mag scrumping ! ( searching in the woods near a lay-by to find porno mags in carrier bags that married men dumped so their ms wouldn’t see them in the bin ) * True story * #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo Look inside their undies to decide what gender they are ! Apparently . . . @HeinousFace hasn't Tweeted yet. Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.  You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.