For over 65 years, the UMass College of Nursing has been a leader in nursing education, research, and community service. Now more than ever, its leadership standing depends on private giving. Alumni are among the most loyal supporters, with friends, foundations, and corporations also playing crucial roles. The College recognizes the need to alleviate a growing shortage of nurses nationwide and is working towards a solution by developing skilled nurses, prepared to take on ever evolving technology. To meet this challenge, the College of Nursing must build on its strengths by: Increased support will also enable the College to develop new models of patient-centered care, uncover new knowledge, and attract the best and brightest nursing students and faculty. A list of existing giving designations is available here. For more information on the College and opportunities for support, please contact the Development Office, tel. 413.545.5090 or email Ben at BMonat@umass.edu. Gifts to the College of Nursing are tax-deductible to the full extent of current and applicable law. Donors receive recognition from both the College and the University of Massachusetts Amherst. 2 Days of Giving: UMassGives. Coming to you in April 2020.  In 2019, our College of Nursing community came together and brought together record fundraising and donor participation numbers, all to help our students. And let us not forget those who spread the word far and wide on social media and to family and friends. It was a team effort, and we are thrilled to provide these funds for student nursing education. If you would like to be a part of the movement, we would love to invite you to be a CON UMassGives ambassador. Just send Ben an email at BMonat@umass.edu and he would be happy to tell you more. Will 2020 be a groundbreaking year? You bet it will be. Together, we look forward to expanding the impact we have on our students. #CONUMassGives2020  Your gifts directly affect our ability to innovate, grow and assist students to realize their educational and career dreams.   Learn more about how you can make an impact on the College of Nursing with Monthly giving!  The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master’s degree program in nursing and Doctor of Nursing Practice degree program at the University of Massachusetts Amherst College of Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The baccalaureate degree program is fully approved by the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Nursing. The University of Massachusetts Amherst is accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE; formerly the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges).     