We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Nice break on the TL: blue sheep doing the impossible, per usual, in the Valley of the Cats, China.pic.twitter.com/rtqOmf31xz Tom Retweeted Imogene Cancellare This doesn't...I don't...my brain keeps wanting to interpret this video as sideways...but...https://twitter.com/biologistimo/status/1171649680289275905 … Tom added, This is wild. My brain is having trouble processing which way is up. Thanks for sharing. Whaaat? This video is sideways right? A little bit Any idea what degree of angle that is? From the video, looks pretty close to vertical. I was watching the one towards the top, and was impressed enough already, but my jaw actually dropped when I noticed the rest of the gang just hanging out on that cliff face! Woooaah...defying bloody gravity. ? Retweeted Imogene Cancellare Spider sheep. Spider sheep. Does whatever a spider doeshttps://twitter.com/biologistimo/status/1171649680289275905 … ? added, This is 1,000 times better than Spiderman! BFF Retweeted Imogene Cancellare Physics is a lie.https://twitter.com/biologistimo/status/1171649680289275905 … BFF added, Blue sheep, dubbed "cliff fairies" as they usually reside in areas with bare rocks about 2,100m to 6,300m above sea level, thrive on northwest China's Helan Mountains http://xhne.ws/j4akS pic.twitter.com/2FcDHq0OsZ Bharal, also called the Himalayan Blue sheep, is seen at the Helan Mountain National Nature Reserve in northwest China's Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, March 27, 2019. The number of bharal has reached over 40,000 on the Helan Mountain after years of environment renovation.pic.twitter.com/98lQ87Cmnu You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.