Apply Now Apply Now We accept applications from rising sophomores*, juniors and seniors in high school. High school seniors who will graduate in the spring of 2020 are also welcome. Please check the course descriptions carefully for eligibility requirements. *Please note, for the Pre-Veterinary Medicine program we accept applications only from rising junior and seniors. Admissions decisions are made on a rolling basis, but it is best to apply early as programs fill up quickly. To apply for Summer Pre-College Programs, we require: International students will be asked to provide additional information regarding TOEFL scores. Internet Explorer browser is not recommended for the application. We invite applications from international students who are interested in studying in the US, while learning more about the higher education system. If you have a certified CEFR level of B1 or greater (or equivalent), no language verification is needed. Others require verification through online interview*. EducationUSA Academy is part of Summer Pre-College at UMass Amherst. Applications are done using the Summer Pre-College Program Online Application. Please select “EducationUSA Academy” from the list of program choices. *If you have taken an English proficiency exam such as TOEFL, IELTS or CAE, you may include a score report. If you do not have English certification, we will schedule a Skype interview after receiving your application. To apply for EducationUSA Academy at UMass Amherst, we require:  All students who have been accepted to UMass for the fall Class of 2023 are welcome to register for Jump! REGISTER NOW Adult learners interested in the summer or semester long programs must have a minimum TOEFL score of 32 or IELTS score of 4.5. Secondary school students must have a minimum CEFR level of B1. Apply online to UMass Amherst’s Intensive English Program (IEP). The application requires: • Written statement of interest • If you are applying for the IEP for adult learners, a copy of your secondary school diploma is required • If you are applying for the IEP for secondary school students, please follow the EducationUSA Academy instructions above • Non-refundable application fee: $75 Adult IEP / $35 Secondary school student IEP UMass Summer Programs is hosted by Continuing & Professional Education. Our programs range from college-level courses for high school students to Intensive English programs for adult learners. summerprograms@umass.edu UMass Summer Programs 408 Goodell 140 Hicks Way Amherst, MA 01003 413-577-2112 summerprograms@umass.edu Facebook Twitter ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact