We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to an older version of Twitter? Yes Former solid citizen turned slacker. Some say nothing is impossible, but I do nothing all day. Please point me toward the next #Hashtag game. You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account you're not interested in anymore. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart – it lets the person who wrote it know that you appreciate them. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about right now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. Change an F to a B on their report card. #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo i never have F's... you get a cookie y aaaa y  I HELLA DID THAT! Oh my gosh I was so talented and such a devious teenager. Ha! I threw mine away once and caught hell! I once changed it to an E for excellent, but my mom was wise to me.pic.twitter.com/DKxx5a5pIz Ha! Love it! How did you guys do it. If the report card was written in ink, people would just fill in to make an F a B. Why, I never... pic.twitter.com/YAY9PcZFdJ Turn yourself in, you'll feel better! I’ll be 20 in about 6 days and I could only change it on a computer Better get to hackin'! pic.twitter.com/CSYECDvP8C Thanks! When I was in 8th grade someone in my grade hacked into the campus portal and changed their grades pen to paper Unless they hack into computers and change them. writing in ink on paper dunce cap for you!   Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.