Public Health and the Health Sciences have a long-standing tradition at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. The Department of Public Health was first created in 1938, and was soon followed by the Department of Foods and Nutrition in 1945. The Communication Disorders program dates back to the 1950s, and the nation’s first Department of Exercise Science (later to be renamed Kinesiology) was born at UMass Amherst in 1965. By 1993, the School of Public Health and Health Sciences (SPHHS), as we now know it, was created, merging the traditional public health disciplines with closely aligned health sciences, specifically nutrition, kinesiology, and communication disorders, to form a unit unique in its interdisciplinary approach. In 2001, the strong tradition of public health at UMass continued with the launch of one of the first fully-online, fully-accredited master of public health degree. The public health practice degree program provides high-quality online education and allows working public health and health-care professionals to continue their education, with little interruption to their busy lives. Since the launch of the program, the School of Public Health and Health Sciences has graduated nearly 550 students and the excellence continues. In 2008, we built on the success of our first online MPH program by launching our online master of public health in nutrition, which is to this day, the only fully-online, fully-accredited concentration of its kind. We are committed to continued excellence in online education, and our vision is to provide flexible opportunities to students around the world. All of our programs are fully accredited by the following organizations: UMass Amherst accepts students from all 50 states into online programs and classes. Some restrictions may apply to programs related to professional licensure (e.g., nursing). For details, check the program websites. State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (SARA): The University of Massachusetts Amherst operates distance education classes and programs for out-of-state students under the terms and provisions of SARA. Please see the SARA website for a list of participating states and territories. California Students: The state of California allows all public institutions to offer distance education to its residents. ACADEMIC GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES The students, faculty and administration of the University of Massachusetts at Amherst recognize the need to provide an orderly process for the resolution of academic grievances. The following Grievance Procedures have therefore been created to meet this need: Additional Information for Distance Education students in SARA member states outside Massachusetts: In accordance with the State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (SARA), if a person bringing a complaint is not satisfied with the outcome of the institutional process for handling complaints, the complaint (except for complaints about grades or student conduct violations) may be appealed, within two years of the incident about which the complaint is made, to the Massachusetts Department of Higher Education which is the SARA portal for Massachusetts SARA member institutions. Complaint forms are available at www.mass.edu. The resolution of the complaint by the institution’s home state SARA portal entity, through its SARA complaint resolution process, will be final. Online Master of Public Health Degree Programs 715 North Pleasant St., Arnold House Room 101 University of Massachusetts Amherst, MA 01003 phone: (413) 545-4530 | (413) 545-4550 phonline@schoolph.umass.edu ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact