British Broadcasting CorporationHome Accessibility links An example of subtitles in Merlin Subtitles (or captions) are textual versions of the dialogue in films and television programmes, usually displayed at the bottom of the screen. While subtitles are essential to allow people who are deaf or hard of hearing to fully experience programmes, there are times when others might appreciate subtitles: for instance, if you're trying to catch the news from a TV in a noisy pub; or if you are working to improve your English. Subtitles have been available on BBC iPlayer online since May 2008, and are now available on over 90% of iPlayer programmes for streaming or downloading. We are constantly striving to improve the coverage and quality of subtitles across iPlayer programmes online (developments are usually announced on the BBC Internet Blog), as well as on other platforms such as mobile, TV and games consoles. For instructions on how to set up subtitles when viewing programmes on BBC iPlayer, visit the How to guide: Turning on subtitles for online video players page. The BBC's aim is to subtitle increasing amounts of our web-only video. The following is a sample of what's now available exclusively on BBC Online: Enjoy exclusive clips from this fantasy drama series. Subtitles are available for all video from the show, including specially shot character profiles, Merlin's magic spells and behind the scenes footage. Explore Sarah Jane's attic, log in to her super computer (Mr Smith) and investigate her secret files. Subtitles are available for much of the video content. Britain's Missing Top Model was a BBC Three series featuring eight young disabled women learning about the skills required to make it in the modelling industry, and competing to win a photo shoot with a top fashion photographer. Running alongside the series, a BBC Learning Campaign aimed to raise awareness of the lack of disabled people in the popular media. Subtitles are available for behind the scenes and interview clips. Watch highlight clips from Torchwood episodes and see exclusive behind the scenes footage of the key characters, in Torchwood 'Up Close'. Subtitles are available for all Series Two video content. More behind-the-scenes footage, from Torchwood: Children of Earth. Get to know the characters of Cwmderi, watch the latest preview clips and relive some of the classic moments of the BBC's longest running soap. Subtitles are available for weekly catch-up clips and for full episodes on BBC iPlayer, in both English and Welsh. Immerse yourself in our interactive online drama. Follow Daisy and Joe as supernatural events disturb their quiet village life. Subtitles are available for all episodes. Click covers recent technology developments, and has reviews of the hottest websites and the low-down on the issues that affect your digital lifestyle. You can catch up on subtitled versions of Click programmes from November 2006 to June 2008. More recent programmes can be found on the Click website. Panorama is a long-running current affairs documentary series on BBC television. Its focus is investigative journalism. Our subtitled archive of Panorama programmes includes stories made between July 2007 and August 2008. More recent programmes that are currently available on BBC iPlayer can be found on the Panorama website. See Hear is the BBC's flagship series for deaf and hard of hearing viewers, a mixture of magazine multi-item format and single subject specials. It has been running for 26 years. Search term: BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.