We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Breaking: Browns DE Chris Smith’s Lamborghini crashed on 90W this morning, after he reported a tire blew. Police say Smith and his girlfriend, Petara Cordero, were standing in the berm when another car hit and killed Cordero. Chris Smith and girlfriend Petara Cordero had a child last month. The Browns say Freddie Kitchens visited Smith at his home today. Cleveland Police say the driver of the car that hit and killed Cordero admitted she had been drinking alcohol. Toxicology reports are pending, and no charges have been filed yet. Browns player Chris Smith was not injured and was not impaired, police say. “Words cannot describe the sorrow we feel for Chris following the loss of his girlfriend, Petara.” Browns mourn loss of Petara Cordero, girlfriend of Browns DE Chris Smith: http://brow.nz/aGPd7v pic.twitter.com/AxGIG3ZIbb Nathan Zegura Retweeted Cleveland Browns An devastating tragedy....my heart goes out to Chris Smith, his daughter Haven Harris Smith and the family of his late girlfriend Petara Cordero #RIPhttps://twitter.com/Browns/status/1171840377474682883 … Nathan Zegura added, Browns confirm defensive lineman Chris Smith was involved in a tragic crash early this morning. Smith is ok but heartbroken. His girlfriend died. The two had a baby together. #Fox8 RIP Petara Cordero. A solid one, for sure. Please pray for the Cordero family and for our brother @98ChrisSmith during this time of need and tragedy. God Bless What an awful week in Cleveland thus far. Prayers to Chris Smith and the Cordero family. #Browns defensive end Chris Smith's girlfriend Petara Cordero was killed in an auto accident Wednesday morning on I-90 in Cleveland. They had their daughter, Haven, 4 weeks ago. So tragic and horriblehttps://www.cleveland.com/browns/2019/09/browns-defensive-end-chris-smiths-girlfriend-killed-in-auto-accident-on-i-90.html … You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.