OR SEARCH CITATIONS Article Views are the COUNTER-compliant sum of full text article downloads since November 2008 (both PDF and HTML) across all institutions and individuals. These metrics are regularly updated to reflect usage leading up to the last few days. Citations are the number of other articles citing this article, calculated by Crossref and updated daily. Find more information about Crossref citation counts. The Altmetric Attention Score is a quantitative measure of the attention that a research article has received online. Clicking on the donut icon will load a page at altmetric.com with additional details about the score and the social media presence for the given article. Find more information on the Altmetric Attention Score and how the score is calculated. The potential applications of electrically conductive protein nanowires (e-PNs) harvested from Geobacter sulfurreducens might be greatly expanded if the outer surface of the wires could be modified to confer novel sensing capabilities or to enhance binding to other materials. We developed a simple strategy for functionalizing e-PNs with surface-exposed peptides. The G. sulfurreducens gene for the monomer that assembles into e-PNs was modified to add peptide tags at the carboxyl terminus of the monomer. Strains of G. sulfurreducens were constructed that fabricated synthetic e-PNs with a six-histidine “His-tag” or both the His-tag and a nine-peptide “HA-tag” exposed on the outer surface. Addition of the peptide tags did not diminish e-PN conductivity. The abundance of HA-tag in e-PNs was controlled by placing expression of the gene for the synthetic monomer with the HA-tag under transcriptional regulation. These studies suggest broad possibilities for tailoring e-PN properties for diverse applications. The Supporting Information is available free of charge on the ACS Publications website at DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.9b00131. DNA sequences, transmission electron micrographs, and conductance charts (PDF)  Pair your accounts. Export articles to Mendeley Get article recommendations from ACS based on references in your Mendeley library. Pair your accounts. Export articles to Mendeley Get article recommendations from ACS based on references in your Mendeley library. You’ve supercharged your research process with ACS and Mendeley! Please note: If you switch to a different device, you may be asked to login again with only your ACS ID. Please note: If you switch to a different device, you may be asked to login again with only your ACS ID. Please note: If you switch to a different device, you may be asked to login again with only your ACS ID. You have to login with your ACS ID befor you can login with your Mendeley account.