The three-year NSF Graduate Research Fellowship is one of the most prestigious awards for early-career students in STEM disciplines and the social sciences. Learn how to develop a compelling application for this honor at our September 11th information session. Sep 12, 2019 | 10:30am - 11:15pm 538 Goodell  Strong time management skills are a must in graduate school! If you struggle with time management—or if you don’t—come to learn how you can do more in less time. Learn the systems and tips that can increase your productivity and leave you more time to enjoy graduate school.  Sep 13, 2019 | 11:00am - 11:45am 538 Goodell  Trained NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Mentors have organized this series to support students preparing NSF GRFP applications. Mentors, all former NSF GRFP recipients, will lead sessions that focus on elements of a competitive application; this session will focus on drafting an application to-do list and designing a timeline to keep you on track for an on-time submission. Stick around for the noon session to get started on your Personal Statement!  Oct 4, 2019 | 9:00am - 3:00pm Westfield State University  Many faculty enjoy rewarding careers at colleges and universities that primarily emphasize teaching, including liberal arts colleges, community colleges, and regional comprehensive universities. This free one-day regional conference brings together graduate students, postdocs, and faculty to discuss what it’s like to work at teaching intensive institutions and how to apply for these faculty positions. Graduate students and postdocs will engage with faculty and deans from a range of teaching-intensive institutions across the New England region through a series of talks, panel presentations, and networking opportunities.  50 STEM graduate students and postdoctoral researchers recently completed an innovative Graduate School program designed to supplement scientific and technical expertise with fundamental business skills. Eight graduate students recently won NSF GRF fellowships, helping UMass retain its standing as a leading statewide institutional producer of this prestigious award. With undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral degrees from the University of Massachusetts Amherst, Brian has invented a vest that improves care for people with autism.