Korean food is usually served as lots of small plates presented together banquet-style. The foundation of most meals is rice, kimchi and soup which will be served with a main course (often a stew) and a multitude of side dishes (known as banchan). Discover diverse African recipes from Cape Malay curries and South African bobotie to family favourites like jollof rice. Rustle up famous American recipes that have become legend in popular culture, from New York cheesecake to California salads and burgers, from Southern-style ribs and pulled pork to all-American apple pie. Enjoy classic British dishes such as fish and chips as well as authentic regional specialities. Shake up the kitchen experimenting with jerk seasoning or classics such as curried goat. Quick, fresh, hot and endlessly interesting try our Chinese recipes and leave the takeaway behind. From 15-minute stir-fry recipes to noodle dishes, dumplings and mouth-watering roasts. Explore Eastern Europe through its different cuisines, from blinis to beef goulash to borscht. Show off your culinary skills with regional and traditional French treats such as coq au vin. We love Greek food - from a simple Greek salad, to grilled Greek lamb skewers to a classic moussaka. Learning how to cook Indian food is a treat - from easy vegetarian Indian recipes to rich, meaty curries; from flaky breads to hearty, warming lentils and fresh, tangy chutneys. Branch out from the curry house classics and try regional Indian recipes - Goan, Punjabi, Bombay-style and Keralan recipes, too. Make hearty classic recipes such as traditional colcannon, Irish stew and boozy desserts. Everyone should know how to cook Italian recipes - classic Italian crowd-pleasers such as lasagne, bolognese ragu and a heavenly tiramisu. Find out how to make perfect pasta and how to cook it properly. Create your own traditional bento box or try homemade sushi with wasabi and Japanese rice. Korean food is usually served as lots of small plates presented together banquet-style. The foundation of most meals is rice, kimchi and soup which will be served with a main course (often a stew) and a multitude of side dishes (known as banchan). Mexican recipes are popular for a reason. Mexican food is so fresh and easy - try our recipes for hot quesadillas, nachos, burritos and soft tacos. Northern delights from Scandinavia and the Nordic countries: Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Iceland. Wrap your tastebuds around a traditional tagine or make your couscous sing with exotic flavours. Pakistani cuisine is tricky to pin down because of the complex geographical and cultural influences, but it certainly won't disappoint. From rich meaty curries to humble lentil and vegetable dishes, there's something for everyone to enjoy. Browse the best dishes from the Portuguese coast, including piri-piri chicken. Make a culinary journey from your kitchen, sampling ceviche, empanadas and caipirinhas. Bring some sunshine to the table with a homemade tapas menu or holiday favourite, paella. Recipes for classic Thai green curry and pad Thai, plus traditional dishes from Singapore and Vietnam. Be inspired by fragrant Persian recipes, cook a Turkish barbecue or make a Middle Eastern meze menu of kofte, falafel and pitta breads.