We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Global news for the world we live in now. Sign up for our daily newsletter: https://bloom.bg/31N0XzX Are you sure you want to view these Tweets? Viewing Tweets won't unblock @tictoc Have you taken our survey yet? Help us improve our daily newsletter by answering 7 quick questions. It'll only take a minute—literally https://bloom.bg/2UMp3bK pic.twitter.com/u1ChUT939d "Whatever it takes" WATCH: Climate activist Roger Hallam was just arrested on the street ahead of a Friday drone protest near Heathrow airportpic.twitter.com/vNRo7ND2z1 Prior to #DemDebate2, here's who Trump had winning the 2020 Democratic nominationpic.twitter.com/UxoM02QIkL Scientists say they have successfully created 2 embryos of the near-extinct northern white rhinopic.twitter.com/G06ttKfLUK The Bahamian government said about 2,500 people are missing in the wake of #HurricaneDorian, but warned that names have yet to be checked against the list of evacueespic.twitter.com/VDo96pelLl Klobuchar came out firing at the first #DemDebate, and hopes to emerge from the field of 10 tonightpic.twitter.com/944xWvCVNS When you play a video game, every detail requires days of hard work by its creators. @AvalancheSweden game director @Fraps77 says creating a game is a "labor of love" #PlayNYCpic.twitter.com/2ENHqvujKW Is vegan ice cream healthy? #tictocnews investigates with a taste testhttps://bloom.bg/34FwRAB The vape industry is fighting to keep its two most popular flavors: mint and mentholpic.twitter.com/6MqP8GRaRP Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she has “10 or 20” favorite 2020 candidates ahead of tonight’s #DemDebatepic.twitter.com/xf0QHs4YMr Speaker Pelosi, when asked about tonight’s #DemDebate candidates, said she wants to know “who among them will connect with the American people” and discouraged them from talking about Trumppic.twitter.com/EV32hevi7r “Vaping has become a very big business," Trump says. "We can’t allow people to get sick and we can’t have our youth be so affected. People are dying”pic.twitter.com/DO7n9pI4r2 “We fully intend to win this election by this November.” Speaker Pelosi, confident about Democrats' 2020 chances, said Republicans didn’t have a “happy day on Tuesday,” despite a special election win in North Carolinapic.twitter.com/6h8bbwNDi1 "Legislate, investigate, litigate." House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says she "supports" the House Judiciary Committee's work in approving an impeachment inquiry on Trumppic.twitter.com/uebKUNjsdn "Just when you think you've seen it all, the children will pay for the president's wall." Speaker Pelosi outlines some of the places Trump has diverted money from to fund a southern border wallpic.twitter.com/efV1LRhzqZ ICYMI: 2 light beams representing the Twin Towers shone in New York's #TributeInLight display to honor #September11 victims @Sept11Memorial #911Anniversarypic.twitter.com/IbzbCi1vEt Almost 8.7 million people watched the last Democratic debate. What do you think tonight's numbers will look like?pic.twitter.com/fkwmn3MsVq Here's the breakdown of each of tonight's 10 #DemDebate candidates' tweets by topic. See their individual breakdowns in @BBGVisualData's interactive story: https://bloom.bg/34AzcwV pic.twitter.com/HBmtB8WsDm As the candidates prepare to take the stage, these are the major issues they've discussed on Twitter. Jobs, the environment, and social justice issues (like women's rights, LGBTQ rights, and race) have dominated most candidates' tweets since January 2019 #DemDebatepic.twitter.com/kIMfEa0Qh3 Boris Johnson says Operation #Yellowhammer - a government report that predicts what Britain could look like in the event of a no-deal Brexit - is a "worst-case scenario"pic.twitter.com/iaEMvms7ZI #DemDebate3 Tonight is the third debate of the 2020 Democratic Party primaries, taking place at @TexasSouthern in Houston, TX. Stay tuned to our thread for every update and angle, as the top 10 candidates appear on the same debate stage for the first timepic.twitter.com/U50zAhoyYe @tictoc hasn't Tweeted yet. Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.  You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.