We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes It’s our job to #GoThere & tell the most difficult stories. Join us! For more breaking news updates follow @CNNBRK & Download our app ?http://cnn.com/apps You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. "John Bolton's defenestration was a long time coming. On so many issues ... President Trump's national security adviser's bellicose views and advice repeatedly clashed with those of his mercurial boss," writes Peter Bergen for @CNNOpinionhttps://cnn.it/34DkQvy Try harder "Despite being a completely unqualified war monger John Bolton ultimately was not quite as insane a patsy as Donald Trump had hoped based on his TV appearances and clashed with an increasingly unstable, illogical, Trump. Predictably his replacement will be even worse." Well, we know #JohnBolton is a complete hawk and an #idiot. So, I'm glad he resigned. At same time, if he sheds more light on #Trump malfeasance and #ineptitude, that's good. Headline writer must be moonlighting as an SAT vocab tutor Kudos on writing an opinion piece that Trump actually won’t be able to understand. The Tampa Bay Rays are winning the World Series Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 9/9/19, 1:08 PM To every one of the HEROES we recognized today — THANK YOU and God Bless You All!pic.twitter.com/O4tENArWml Russian bots are becoming so easy to spot! Trump tweeted Bolton's termination at 10:58am, 8 minutes AFTER this hit the news. FEMA official, Deputy Regional Administrator Ahsha Nateef Tribble & others were arrested & charged with fraud & conspiracy charges.https://www.justice.gov/usao-pr/pr/fema-deputy-regional-administrator-former-president-cobra-acquisitions-llc-and-another … “Defenestration”. pic.twitter.com/eIVYCvmOb6 He’s a bright guy. Now that's a headline!! DEDICA A JOHN BOLTONhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6s1tuvmdWMs … Thank god he's gone Bolton should rest, to avoid war with the whole world. Some day they will all say it was a privilege getting fired from the Trump Administration and how they only took the job to uphold American values. Bolton also had no clue about Hong Kong or China mentality or trade. No idea. Neither does Bannon who had completely flawed knowledge about China. Both were delusional. Very surprising that @realDonaldTrump welcomed advice from them on China Trade & HK. He is worse than Trump! Man, how awesome would it have been if he actually was thrown out a window?!?! #defenestration  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.