The funeral of Formula 2 racer Anthoine Hubert, who died in a high-speed crash at Spa in August, was held on Tuesday. F1 will be fairer, safer and better when drivers are clear what they can't do, says Jolyon Palmer in the light of Charles Leclerc's escape in Italy. Follow the 15th race of the 2019 Formula 1 season across BBC Radio 5 Live, the BBC Sport website and mobile app. Ferrari's Sebastian Vettel says he is "not worried" about his form after he wrecked his Italian Grand Prix with a spin and collision.  The 5 live F1 team react to a strange Italian Grand Prix qualifying. Success has never come easily for Charles Leclerc - even in victory he has a weight on his shoulders many could not bear. Watch the documentary as British racing driver Katherine Legge is out to prove that in racing, male or female shouldn't matter as 'the car doesn't know the difference'. Following the death of Formula 2 driver Anthoine Hubert at Spa, drivers will go about their business in a sport that brings incredible highs and awful lows. Alex Albon has been in Formula 1 for just a few months, so why has he been promoted to one of the best seats in the sport already? Several of the women who took part in the inaugural W Series season have now got drives in other championships – so has the W Series made a difference? Pierre Gasly's demotion at Red Bull is the latest in a line of mid-season F1 driver switches - a list that includes both Max Verstappen's father and Michael Schumacher. With radical rule changes for 2021 still being debated, Andrew Benson explains how the drivers are exerting pressure on Formula 1's bosses. On the 25th anniversary of Ayrton Senna's death, Andrew Benson explains why the Brazilian's spirit and memory lives on as strong as ever. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you Analysis and opinion from the BBC's chief Formula 1 writer. Get the latest results and headlines sent straight to your phone, find all our Formula 1 coverage details with our Live Guide, sign-up to our newsletter and learn where to find us on online. Evil Genius: Watch out, dead famous people I would have loved Neymar return - Messi F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France What Bayliss is really like - Wood I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad