If you want to be considered for summer financial aid, you must: To apply for summer financial aid, you must: You may receive financial aid to attend a summer study abroad program, if it is an approved program with the International Programs Office (IPO). To receive aid, your program must be at least six credits. To apply: If you are applying for Federal Direct loans, you are required to take at least six credits during the summer session. If you are a graduate student on program fee and you are working on a dissertation or field research that is considered at least half time by your program director you may be eligible for summer financial aid. The Graduate Registrar will certify your enrollment status upon notification from your graduate program director. Since there are no tuition charges for program fee students, loan funds may be used for indirect educational expenses and to pay for the program fee charge. If you are applying for Summer Work-Study only, you are not required to enroll in classes for the summer session. If you are applying for an Alternative loan you must comply with the lender’s criteria regarding credits and enrollment status. We recommend you apply for Federal financial aid first. Visit the lender’s website to get information about the application process. If you do not enroll for the minimum number of credits during the summer we cannot award you loans. Additionally, if at any time during the summer session you fall below the required six credit minimum, your loans will be canceled. Students taking summer classes: All UMass Amherst matriculated students will be able to register for summer classes in SPIRE, prior to financial aid being finalized. Please note the ability to register does not ensure receipt of summer financial aid. Students going on exchange: Contact IPO and complete the Summer Study Abroad Program Questionnaire to get your program approved. Indicate that you would like to be considered for summer financial aid. The International Programs Office (IPO) will register you for the classes and notify Financial Aid Services of your enrollment and program eligibility. If the cost of your courses exceeds the financial aid award you receive, you are responsible for paying the difference. Federal Direct loans: During the summer session you may receive up to half of an academic year annual eligibility in Federal Direct Loans. For award amounts review the Summer Financial Aid Application & Eligibility Information form. Federal PLUS loans and Alternative loans: You may receive up to the cost of attendance minus any financial aid received. We encourage you to apply for Federal financial aid first. Remember to borrow responsibly. Loans are a debt that must be repaid with interest. To apply for a Graduate PLUS loan you must complete a PLUS Loan Pre-application Form. Your cost of attendance for the summer includes a room and board allowance. However, the financial aid you may be eligible for may not cover these costs. You may want to consider applying for an alternative loan to pay for these expenses. You may also earn work-study to help pay for living expenses. When will summer financial aid be applied/disbursed* to my bill? Please note that a total of six credits of summer enrollment (Session One or Session Two combined) is required to qualify for Federal Direct Loans (subsidized, unsubsidized, PLUS) *Disbursed means the day the summer funds are credited to your University bill, not the day you will receive an excess/refund. If you are eligible for a refund you will receive it through the Excess Express process. For more information about Excess Express visit the Bursar's Office website. Review your Rights and Responsibilities for applying and receiving financial aid.  Financial Aid Services 243 Whitmore Admin. Building 181 Presidents Dr. Amherst, MA 01003 Phone: 413-545-0801 Fax: 413-545-1700 finaid@finaid.umass.edu Staff Listing Monday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Tuesday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Wednesday: 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. Thursday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Saturday: Closed Sunday: Closed CMASS, Wilder Hall Thursdays 2:30-4:30 p.m. International Programs Office, 70 Butterfield Terrace Tuesdays 12:30-4:30 p.m. Library Learning Commons Tuesdays & Wednesdays 5:00-8:00 p.m.   ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact