Anthony Joshua's trainer Rob McCracken insists the health of his boxers is of "paramount importance". Heavyweight Tyson Fury vows to not underestimate heavy underdog Otto Wallin at a colourful news conference in Las Vegas. Bob Arum has been promoting boxing for nearly 60 years and he talks to BBC Sport about the four-point blueprint for anyone keen to promote. How many punches can you throw in 12 seconds? Here are some of your efforts from BBC Sport's 12-second challenge. Find out how former world champion Liam Smith, trainer Joe Gallagher and many more got on when they took on BBC Sport's 12-second challenge Former heavyweight champion Anthony Joshua is questioned on Saudi Arabia's human rights record before his world title rematch with Andy Ruiz. How will Saudi Arabia impact on the Joshua-Ruiz rematch, what questions does it pose boxing and will UK fans get to attend? How many times can you hit a punchbag in 12 seconds? Watch these pro boxers give it their all. Mike Costello and Steve Bunce debate the way forward for boxing as the issue of drug use in the sport raised its head again. A cuts man has 60 seconds to potentially save a boxer's chances, so what do they do? And how do they stay calm under pressure? Sonny Liston was found dead at his Las Vegas home in 1971. A coroner concluded he died of natural causes - but some say the truth is darker. Eddie Hearn starts out this week's podcast at Bethnal Green's York Hall before going on to meet rock music legend Noel Gallagher. Frank Bruno recalls the night where over two million Britons tuned in on radios to see if he could stun Mike Tyson in Las Vegas. After discovering new evidence, the BBC recounts the story of Rubin Carter - a boxer whose fight for titles became a battle for freedom. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you Analysis and opinion from the BBC's boxing correspondent. The sports promoter meets the biggest names in sport, entertainment and politics Fifty-two years ago, boxer Rubin Carter was convicted of a triple murder. BBC World Service investigates the case in the podcast series The Hurricane Tapes. How to get into boxing - intense cardiovascular exercise from sparring in one of the Olympics' oldest sports. I would have loved Neymar return - Messi F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France What Bayliss is really like - Wood I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad