The second prosecution of an illegal and unregistered school in England ends in a guilty finding. The second prosecution of an illegal and unregistered school in England ends in a guilty finding. The plight of thousands of women who flee domestic abuse and end up homeless is highlighted in a report. UK university leads global league table, but there are warnings of German universities catching up. Ofsted suggests pupils who may misbehave when they get to secondary should be identified and supported. The singer is accused of holding lessons in an annexe without planning permission. Many children in England with special educational needs are not getting the help they need, auditors warn. Intelligence reports show what the public were really saying during World War Two. The second prosecution of an illegal and unregistered school in England ends in a guilty finding. The plight of thousands of women who flee domestic abuse and end up homeless is highlighted in a report. UK university leads global league table, but there are warnings of German universities catching up. Ofsted suggests pupils who may misbehave when they get to secondary should be identified and supported. The singer is accused of holding lessons in an annexe without planning permission. Many children in England with special educational needs are not getting the help they need, auditors warn. Intelligence reports show what the public were really saying during World War Two. The plight of thousands of women who flee domestic abuse and end up homeless is highlighted in a report. UK university leads global league table, but there are warnings of German universities catching up. Ofsted suggests pupils who may misbehave when they get to secondary should be identified and supported. Hannah Richardson BBC News education reporter The second prosecution of an illegal and unregistered school in England ends in a guilty finding. Housing officers believe new properties could "remove the stigma" and tempt people to live there. Inspectors say they are not convinced "reasonable alternatives" have been considered. Becky Morton BBC News Tenants reveal how they are turning to review websites to rate landlords and warn other tenants. The judge was ousted by voters in 2018, and briefly found a new job coaching at a San Jose school. The £22m Coppergate scheme in Swansea will not be ready to welcome students at the start of term. Science teacher John Stanway showed signs of being "under the influence" at work, a panel hears. The classes will become a compulsory part of the curriculum in English schools from 2020. Hannah Richardson BBC News education reporter Ofsted suggests pupils who may misbehave when they get to secondary should be identified and supported. The Mental Welfare Commission says her treatment caused "unnecessary distress". Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News