A Politico report said Israel was likely behind surveillance devices found near the White House. A Politico report said Israel was likely behind surveillance devices found near the White House. The sister of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman received a 10-month suspended sentence. Australian Mark Firkin and British-Australian Jolie King have been detained for about 10 weeks. With air strikes targeting hospitals, they've been forced underground to survive. An Israeli vow to apply sovereignty to part of the West Bank is described as a "dangerous development". The women and an Australian man are understood to have been taken to a prison in Tehran. Turkey's Sabah newspaper publishes what it says is a transcript of the Saudi journalist's death. A Politico report said Israel was likely behind surveillance devices found near the White House. The sister of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman received a 10-month suspended sentence. Australian Mark Firkin and British-Australian Jolie King have been detained for about 10 weeks. With air strikes targeting hospitals, they've been forced underground to survive. An Israeli vow to apply sovereignty to part of the West Bank is described as a "dangerous development". The women and an Australian man are understood to have been taken to a prison in Tehran. Turkey's Sabah newspaper publishes what it says is a transcript of the Saudi journalist's death. The sister of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman received a 10-month suspended sentence. Australian Mark Firkin and British-Australian Jolie King have been detained for about 10 weeks. With air strikes targeting hospitals, they've been forced underground to survive. A Politico report said Israel was likely behind surveillance devices found near the White House. The sister of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman received a 10-month suspended sentence. Photographer Kate Green says she witnessed "immeasurable hardship" at a refugee camp in Jordan. Australian Mark Firkin and British-Australian Jolie King have been detained for about 10 weeks. Scot Pearson, 22, was convicted of killing Mohammed Abu Sammour following a trial at the High Court in Glasgow. Jonathan Marcus Diplomatic correspondent Hungary has drawn up plans to upgrade diplomatic relations with Syria, breaking with EU policy. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News