Jump to navigation Successfully managing healthcare facilities has distinctive challenges. Isenberg’s specialized MBA trains professionals to lead and succeed in the evolving industry.  In partnership with the UMass School of Public Health and Health Sciences, the Isenberg MBA with a Focus in Healthcare Administration offers a mix of business and public health courses that directly apply to the healthcare industry. This focus is ideal for healthcare professionals seeking promotion into management or those looking to transition into the rapidly growing field of healthcare administration. MBA students are required to complete a total of 9 elective credits to establish an optional focus area. The following list of courses are a sampling of Healthcare Administration electives. Please note that these electives are offered on a rotating basis and are subject to change. Connect with your Academic Advisor for current course offerings.  Aging, Policy, Politics, and Law Communication Theory Comparative Healthcare System Ecommerce Logistics Ethical Issues in Public Health Financial Management of Health Institutions Globalization and Health Health Disparities Health Economics and Reimbursement Health Program Planning Healthcare Data Analytics Healthcare Organization and Administration Healthcare Quality and Performance Improvement International Health, Population, and Development Intro to Health Politics and Policy Intro to US Healthcare Intro to US Mental Health System LEAN Management Public Health Informatics Public Health Law Public Health Leadership  Students may substitute up to 3 credits of Healthcare Administration electives with a “flex” designated elective. These flex electives are applicable to all industries and can be applied to all focus areas. Business Intelligence & Analytics Data Management for Business Leaders Negotiations Theory & Practice Personal Finance - Basics Personal Finance - Cash Management Personal Finance - Insurance Personal Finance - Investments Project Management Six Sigma for Management Practice Series  Note: A completed focus will be included on your transcript, but will not be included on the official diploma from the university. Please contact our office with any questions at grad@isenberg.umass.edu.  When to Apply for Admissions: Course Registration Generally Begins:  You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.