The UMass Amherst Libraries strive to maintain a welcoming, comfortable, and safe environment for all users, i.e., anyone who enters our buildings, including staff. Users of the UMass Amherst Libraries are expected to maintain behavior that consistently respects the rights of other users to study, conduct research, and work within the buildings. Users are expected to adhere to UMass Amherst policies as well as relevant state and federal laws. Library building monitors or other staff will ask users engaging in behavior that disrupts study and effective use of the Libraries to stop the disruptive behavior or leave the building. The Libraries reserve the right to determine what conduct constitutes “disruptive behavior.” Examples of disruptive behavior include but are not limited to: playing media without headphones or at a level that disturbs other users; making loud noises; loud cell phone conversations; competing noise levels amongst group study rooms; belligerent behaviors. If the disruptive behavior persists, Library building monitors or other staff will contact the campus police for assistance. For security reasons, the W.E.B. Du Bois Library is intended for use between the hours of midnight and 7 a.m. by UMass Amherst faculty, staff, and students who possess a valid university ID. Building monitors or other library staff may ask users for a valid university ID between the hours of midnight and 7 a.m. Those without a valid ID will be asked to leave the building. The UMass Amherst Libraries’ user behavior expectations are listed below. Animals and pets, except service animals assisting disabled persons, may not enter the UMass Amherst Libraries. For additional details, review the Campus Pet Policy. Use of the workstations in the Assistive Technologies Center requires both an IT NetID account and registration with UMass Disability Services. Bicycles, including collapsible bicycles, must remain outside the building, secured to bicycle racks. The Libraries will contact UMass police to remove any bicycles locked to the railings outside the Du Bois Library building. Rollerblades, skateboards, scooters, Segways, unicycles, and other rideable devices, except those needed by individuals with a disability, may be carried in but not used in Library facilities. A limited number of carrels are available in the Du Bois Library and assigned to eligible applicants. Carrels are assigned on a first-come, first-served basis. Refrigerators and heating or cooking devices (including coffee makers) are not permitted in carrels. The Libraries are not responsible for damage to or theft of personal items in carrels. Cell phone use is permitted in all non-quiet study areas of the Libraries. Users are expected to be respectful of others while using their cell phones. Users conducting loud or disruptive cell phone conversations will be asked by library staff to move to use one of the cell phone booths (located in the Learning Commons and on the Du Bois Library 2nd and 3rd floors) or go outside. Children are welcome at the UMass Amherst Libraries with the understanding they must be accompanied by and under the supervision of an adult at all times. If Library staff find a child alone, they will attempt to locate the adult to explain that the child must be supervised. If the adult does not comply with this request or if the adult cannot be located, library staff may notify the UMass Amherst Police Department. In the W. E. B. Du Bois Library, warning bells ring several times before closing: once 30 minutes before closing, twice 15 minutes before closing, three times 5 minutes before closing, and one very long sound at closing time. In the Science and Engineering Library, verbal warnings are given 30 minutes before closing and 5 minutes before closing. Users are expected to cooperate with staff and leave when the building closes. Users must wear appropriate attire, including shoes and shirts, at all times when in the UMass Amherst Libraries. The Libraries are a resource for all. Items borrowed should be returned on time to ensure availability to others. Due dates may be managed online, in person, or by phone: 413-545-2623 (Du Bois) or 413-545-1370 (Science & Engineering). Items that are recalled should be returned on time. Use of electronic resources are covered by the Libraries’ Electronic Resources Usage Policy. The UMass Amherst Libraries have limited space to host events and meetings. To submit a request, review the Events in the UMass Amherst Libraries Policy and click Book an Event. These buildings are your Libraries. Please help us to achieve the goals of preservation, cleanliness, and safety by observing the following: The UMass Amherst Libraries endorse the American Library Association’s Code of Ethics, Library Bill of Rights, and Access to Digital Information, Services and Networks, which support access to information and oppose censorship, labeling, and restricting users’ access to information of all kinds. U.S. copyright law and contractual agreements govern the access, use, and reproduction of the electronic resources the Libraries make available to authorized users. Use is limited to non-profit, educational purposes. The sharing of passwords and systematic downloading may result in suspension of service for the campus. For more information, please see the Electronic Resources Usage Policy. The UMass Amherst Libraries are not responsible for monitoring potentially controversial Internet materials displayed on workstations. However, instances of displaying child pornography, which is illegal, will be reported to the police. Seating, computers, and study rooms in the Learning Commons (LC) are available on a first-come, first-served basis without time limits, with the following exceptions: Licenses for some software packages are based on "maximum simultaneous users" and may not be available to every user at all times. These packages are available on a first-come, first-served basis. Users may not install software on Learning Commons computers. Additional policies guiding classroom use found here. Additional information regarding the LC floor plan is available at: http://www.library.umass.edu/assets/Uploads/UTLS/Learning-Commons/LCfloorplan.pdf Most items found in the W.E.B. Du Bois Library are stored for 30 days at the Library Information Desk (413-577-0840). Most items found in the Science and Engineering Library (413-545-1370) are stored at its Service Desk for 30 days. Any UCards turned in to the Libraries’ Lost and Found will be returned to the UCard Office. Electronic devices and items containing personal identification information, such as drivers’ licenses, credit cards, birth certificates, passports, etc., will be turned over to the UMass Police Department. Users are responsible for their personal property at all times and should never leave personal belongings unattended. Personal items left unattended for 15 minutes or longer may be removed and sent to Lost and Found so the space can be used by others. Items removed are not the responsibility of the UMass Amherst Libraries. Lockers are available for short-term use on the 2nd and 5th floors of the W. E. B. Du Bois Library. Bulletin boards in the UMass Amherst Libraries are intended for items announcing events sponsored by or of interest to the UMass and Four College community. Anyone wishing to post something in one of the Libraries should give the item to a staff member at the Library Information Desk, Learning Commons and Technical Support Desk, or Circulation/Reserves Desk. Users may post announcements on a small board located on the Entrance Level of the W.E.B. Du Bois Library. Duplicate copies and outdated announcements will be removed daily. Promotional Signage Policy The UMass Amherst Libraries are committed to protecting each Library user‘s privacy and confidentiality by keeping private any personally identifiable information about users. Information related to items checked out or billed to individual users is not given out over the phone. For additional information, consult the UMass Amherst FERPA policy. Seating, computers, and study rooms in the Science and Engineering Library are available on a first-come, first-served basis without time limits, with the following exceptions: Workstations are open to the general public. Licenses for some software packages are based on "maximum simultaneous users" and may not be available to every user at all times. These packages are available on a first-come, first-served basis. Users may not install software on SEL computers. The social media policy for the UMass Amherst Libraries covers the official social media channels of the UMass Amherst Libraries: Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and YouTube. The official social media channels will be maintained by the designated social media administrator for the purposes of promoting the mission and values of the UMass Amherst Libraries. The UMass Amherst Libraries reserve the right to remove or not to post content that is malicious, inappropriate, spam, violates Copyright or other rights, or does not promote the mission and values of the UMass Amherst Libraries. The UMass Amherst Libraries are dedicated to providing an academic space for research, scholarship, and study. To respect the privacy, security, and comfort of all Library users, soliciting and tabling is not permitted in any part of the UMass Amherst Libraries whether by University or external groups. This includes the requesting of money, services, favors, goods, opinions, and signatures; petitioning; interviewing; offering paid-for services; or selling of any products or service. For survey taking and other exceptions, apply to the Dean of Libraries in advance for written approval. UMass Amherst is a tobacco-free campus. Smoking, smokeless tobacco, and the use of electronic cigarettes are prohibited anywhere on campus. The W. E. B. Du Bois Library has a limited number of locked study carrels. Contact the Circulation/Reserves Desk (413-545-2623) for more information. Carrels are subject to regular inspection. Electrical appliances are prohibited from carrels because they pose an extreme fire risk. Laptops are permitted. The Du Bois Library Learning Commons has 18 unlocked, drop-in study rooms. These rooms are reserved for groups of three (3) or more on a first-come, first-served basis. Single users/groups of fewer than three (3) will be asked to move. The Science and Engineering Library has eight (8) unlocked, drop-in study rooms on Floor 2. These rooms are reserved for groups of three (3) or more on a first-come, first-served basis. Single users/groups of fewer than three (3) will be asked to move. There are also a few unlocked, drop-in study rooms on Floor 3. Contact any service desk for current locations. Signage indicates those areas designated as “quiet zones.” There should be no group study, loud conversations, or cell phone conversations in these areas. The University has an extensive program for the recycling of paper, metal, and plastic. Containers for this purpose are located throughout the Libraries. Users are expected to dispose of recyclables and other trash in an appropriate manner. Food waste should be placed in trash receptacles. Beverage and other recyclable containers should be rinsed out prior to disposal in labeled bins. Graffiti and destruction of furniture, books, magazines/periodicals, etc., are considered destruction of university property and all incidents of this nature will be reported to campus police.  Proposed by User Services Advisory Group, July 18, 2005 Approved by Senior Management Group, August 24, 2005 Revised by Senior Management Group, March 1, 2006 Revised by Senior Management Group, April 19, 2006 Approved by Senior Management Group, June 23, 2010 Approved by Senior Management Group, April 27, 2011 Approved by Senior Management Group, March 2, 2012 Approved by Senior Management Group, June 27, 2012 Approved by Senior Management Group, August 14, 2013 Approved by Senior Management Group, April 17, 2014 Approved by Senior Management Group, September 18, 2015 Approved by Senior Management Group, March 16, 2016 Approved by Senior Management Group, October 25, 2017 © 2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact