The results for 2018 lay bare the extent of the problems at the businessman's fashion empire. The results for 2018 lay bare the extent of the problems at the businessman's fashion empire. The settlement ends a four-year investigation into Google's tax affairs. The social media giant faces growing opposition to its planned cryptocurrency. The partnership is hit by "difficult" trading and says a no-deal Brexit would have a "significant" impact The firm wants to shed management layers as it focuses on e-cigarettes and other new products. The Sports Direct boss has defended the firm's strategy, saying he has faith in High Street retail. The manufacturer of painkiller OxyContin stands accused of helping fuel a deadly US crisis. The results for 2018 lay bare the extent of the problems at the businessman's fashion empire. The settlement ends a four-year investigation into Google's tax affairs. The social media giant faces growing opposition to its planned cryptocurrency. The partnership is hit by "difficult" trading and says a no-deal Brexit would have a "significant" impact The firm wants to shed management layers as it focuses on e-cigarettes and other new products. The Sports Direct boss has defended the firm's strategy, saying he has faith in High Street retail. The manufacturer of painkiller OxyContin stands accused of helping fuel a deadly US crisis. The settlement ends a four-year investigation into Google's tax affairs. The social media giant faces growing opposition to its planned cryptocurrency. The partnership is hit by "difficult" trading and says a no-deal Brexit would have a "significant" impact The leaders of 145 companies send a letter to Congress about "an urgent public health crisis". The settlement ends a four-year investigation into Google's tax affairs. The union Unite has welcomed the announcement that a consortium led by Babcock is to build a new generation of Royal Navy frigate. The ships will be assembled at Rosyth in Fife. But, Steve Turner, the union's assistant general secretary for manufacturing, says that it is "just one piece in the jigsaw needed to secure the future of UK shipbuilding and the thousands of jobs that it sustains in communities across the country. "It was always going to be the case that these Royal Navy warships would be built here in UK yards. "The government must ensure these ships are built using UK steel and that UK firms in the manufacturing supply chain reap the economic benefits". The results for 2018 lay bare the extent of the problems at the businessman's fashion empire. One FTSE 100 stock which is higher is Morrisons, up 4.5%, after its results. While the supermarket is making headway with its wholesale supply offering both in the UK and overseas, it faces ongoing pressure from discounters, such as Aldi and Lidl, who are competing for the retail market share alongside the big four. Brexit uncertainty continues to impact on consumer sentiment across the sector, but Morrisons’ recent expansion of its partnership with Amazon shows a clear focus on becoming a major player in online groceries, which could help to boost its performance before the end of the financial year. The partnership is hit by "difficult" trading and says a no-deal Brexit would have a "significant" impact The firm wants to shed management layers as it focuses on e-cigarettes and other new products. Shares in the maker of Angry Birds - Finnish company Rovio - have plunged 25% after it cut is outlook for earnings. It said had lower than expected revenue from brand licencing and older games. But newer games, Angry Birds Dream Blast and Sugar Blast, are performing better. "We see a window of opportunity in the market to scale up our top games and we are seizing this opportunity," Kati Levoranta, Rovio's chief executive, said. Today Programme BBC Radio 4 Defence Secretary Ben Wallace also spoke to Today about the new contract to build frigates, which he said would bring "2,500 British jobs for British workers". "British shipbuilding can be on the up. We need to help support our yards, give them help where it's needed for productivity but also make sure thatt our orders where we can are placed in the UK to reinvigorate that sector," he said. Today Programme BBC Radio 4 Ben Wallace, the defence secretary, has spoken to Today following the publication of the Yellowhammer documents which show Mr Wallace said it was "living document" and that the government was planning for a no-deal Brexit and that the Chancellor had "opened his cheque book". An extra 700 had been recruited for the border force. "You start with a document that says 'paint me the worse case scenario" and let's do something about it". Read more about Yellowhammer here. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News