We provide access to a superior UMass Amherst education delivered in formats and schedules that allow you to balance work, school, and personal obligations. From online learning to field-based training, we have it all. For working professionals building skills that set them apart, college students designing their own majors and adults finishing their degree - UMass Amherst programs offered through the University Without Walls are designed for the Lifelong Learner. The mission of the University Without Walls is to facilitate access to the educational and professional needs of the residents of Massachusetts, the region, and beyond. Working with the UMass Amherst schools and colleges, UWW is a leader in online education offering degrees and certificates in a number of subject areas. Summers at UMass feature credit courses and pre-college programs for teens and incoming students. UWW’s commitment to first-rate programming, excellent student support, and expert faculty has enabled UWW to serve the needs of a diverse community. Since 1971, UMass Amherst has been a pioneer in undergraduate degree completion with our UWW BA/BS Degree Completion Program. For those who want to resume their undergraduate degree but aren't sure on what to study, this program lets you build the program that suits you best. Bring in or earn up to 105 credits for prior coursework and prior learning from work and life experiences. The University of Massachusetts Amherst is accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges, which accredits schools in the six New England states. As the Commonwealth’s Flagship Campus, UMass Amherst is proud to be recognized for our best-in-class programs, ranked by leading publications.  Please note: The University Without Walls was formerly known as Continuing & Professional Education (CPE) Use our interactive class finder to search by subject, program, term, and more! Looking for important dates? Or do you need to fill out a specific form? Find info from across all UMass Amherst departments and programs.