Jump to navigation The Center for Business and Professional Communication offers writing and speaking assistance to all Isenberg Undergraduate, Online Degree, MBA/Masters, and PhD students and supports their efforts to become effective business communicators. The Center is located in Isenberg 336 and staffed by Business Communication Program faculty. Students may visit the Center for Business and Professional Communication either during walk-in hours or by appointment. Please contact Gail Cruise, Coordinator, Center for Business and Professional Communication to schedule an appointment. The Center for Business and Professional Communication offers writing and speaking assistance to all Isenberg Undergraduate, Online Degree, MBA/Masters, and PhD students and supports their efforts to become effective business communicators. Communication skills are highly valued in the workplace and one of the top skills in demand by businesses. Through consultation, coaching, and Communication Across the Curriculum initiatives, our Center promotes business and professional communication skills for students and assists instructors in meeting their communication teaching goals. For faculty, these services include customized workshops and in-class presentations, case competition feedback on students’ framework for analysis, consultations on integrating writing and speaking into courses, or the development of materials to support student learning. If students are looking for more personalized support, the Center for Business and Professional Communication offers one-on-one and small group consultations on assignments, slide decks, graduate school essays, as well as writing and speaking deliverables. The Center also provides resources on a variety of communication topics in hard copy format in our Center and online that faculty and students may download, print, or distribute. Through our innovative Center for Business and Professional Communication, we provide an extensive range of business and professional communication services for Isenberg faculty and students, including: If students are looking for more personalized support, the Center for Business and Professional Communication offers one-on-one and small group consultations on assignments, job applications, slide decks, graduate school essays, and writing and speaking deliverables. All Business Communication Program faculty serve as coaches in the Center for Business and Professional Communication, located in Isenberg 336. All Business Communication Program faculty serve in the Center for Business and Professional Communication. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.