Recent judgments Recent decisions Recent press releases Multimedia Applicants Superior Courts Network Other languages Factsheets & Country profiles Case-Law Information Notes Information visits 11/09/2019  The Court held a Grand Chamber hearing in the case of Ukraine v. Russia (re Crimea) on 11 September 2019. The case concerns Ukraine’s allegations of violations of the European Convention on Human Rights by the Russian Federation in Crimea. Press release Webcast of the hearing Questions and Answers on Inter-State applications Inter-State applications In the case of Pryanishnikov v. Russia the Court held that there had been a violation of the right to freedom of expression. The case concerned the refusal to grant the applicant a film reproduction licence. The Court found in particular that the only reason advanced by the domestic courts for refusing the reproduction licence had not been based on findings of fact. Press release In the case of Olewnik-Ciepli?ska and Olewnik v. Poland, the Court found several violations of the right to life. The Court found that the Polish authorities should be held responsible for a succession of serious errors by the police in investigating the kidnapping of the applicants’ relative, which had ultimately resulted in his death. Press release In the case of Theodorou and Tsotsorou v. Greece, the Court found a violation of the right to marriage. The case concerned the annulment of the applicants’ marriage on the grounds that Ms Tsotsorou was Mr Theodorou’s former sister-in-law. Press release  In the case of Strand Lobben and Others v. Norway, the Court found a violation of the right to respect for private and family life. This case concerns the removal of a mother’s parental authority and the adoption of her eldest son. Press release Delivery of the judgment Webcast of the hearing (17/10/2018) Factsheet: Parental Rights Country profile - Norway On 9 September 2019 the Court accepted the referral to the Grand Chamber of the case of Guðmundur Andri Ástráðsson v. Iceland. The case concerns the applicant’s allegation that the new Icelandic Court of Appeal (Landsréttur) was not established by law. The Court also decided to reject requests to refer 20 other cases. Press release Cases pending before the Grand Chamber The Court has given notice to Poland of an application in the case of Xero Flor w Polsce sp. z o.o. v. Poland. The applicant company complains about proceedings concerning a compensation claim and about the appointment of a specific judge to the Constitutional Court which examined its case. Press release In September 2019 the Court will be holding hearings concerning Turkey and Romania. The case of Selahattin Demirta? v. Turkey (no. 2) concerns the arrest and pre-trial detention of the applicant, who at the time of the events was one of the co-chairs of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP), a left-wing pro-Kurdish political party. The case of Muhammad and Muhammad v. Romania concerns a procedure to remove two Pakistani nationals from Romania after they had been declared undesirable. Press release Calendar of hearings On 5 September 2019, an informal meeting between the Secretary General-Elect of the Council of Europe and the Judges Court took place in Strasbourg. Marija Pej?inovi? Buri? took part in a roundtable discussion with the Judges together with the Registrar and the Deputy Registrar on the subject of “Europe Ahead: the future of the Council of Europe”. 05/09/2019 6 Judgments & 17 Decisions Rizzotto v. Italy 17-19/09/2019 10 Judgments & 96 Judgments/Decisions