Ernest Pharmaceuticals, a startup venture based at UMass Amherst’s Institute of Applied Life Sciences (IALS), is one of four companies to win $2,500 from the Massachusetts Technology Transfer Center’s (MTTC) in a business pitch poster competition in Boston. This recognizes the groundbreaking young biotech firm as it brings its research on programmed bacteria that deliver anticancer treatment to tumors from labto market. Scientists expect that in the future, electronically active garments containing unobtrusive, portable devices for monitoring heart rate and respiratory rhythm during sleep, for example, will prove clinically useful in health care. Now researchers at UMass Amherst have developed physiological-sensing textiles that can be woven or stitched into sleep garments they have dubbed “phyjamas. Internationally recognized climate scientist and Distinguished Professor Raymond S. Bradley at UMass Amherst has been elected an International Fellow in the Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences Division of the Academy of Science of the Royal Society of Canada (RSC) for “major contributions to our understanding of the nature and causes of climate change.” UMass Amherst ranks among the nation’s top public universities, climbing this year to No. 24 in the Best Colleges 2020 guide published by U.S. News & World Report. The Commonwealth’s flagship campus stands out as one of the most improved top-tier public universities in America. A team of researchers at UMass Amherst has received a four-year, $1.75 million grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to study and construct soft stretchable electronic devices that can be used in future healthcare, security and communications applications. The scientists plan to use conductive protein nanowires and mechanically soft nanomaterials to create a new nanocomposite that is strong, flexible and highly conductive.  The Fine Arts Center has named Michael Sakamoto to the newly created position of associate director of programming. He will also serve as director of the Asian arts and culture program. In an email to the campus community on Thursday, Sept. 12, Nefertiti Waker, interim asscociate chancellor for diversity, equity and inclusion and chief diversity officer, offered descriptions of several campus-wide iniatives designed to foster a culture of equity and inclusion. The campus will conduct a test of the UMass Amherst Alerts Emergency Notification System (ENS) on Tuesday, Sept. 17 after 12:50 p.m., according to Jeff Hescock, executive director of Environmental Health and Safety and Emergency Management. More Stories Submit Your Hometown News