We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Libra, October 8th. Charter guest host @catbirdtags, Wednesday nights. 7pm PST, 10pm EST. You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo Having to wait for photos to be developed!pic.twitter.com/sFCvnvLUTB Or, for that matter, waiting for a vhs tape to rewind, lol. Seemed like it took forever! But it showed a modicum of kindness somehow, lol.  So excited to pick them up!pic.twitter.com/Yk17365ZMU Thank you Katzz! Your welcome Lisa! pic.twitter.com/16RWYCK4yU  I'm 18 and I remember using a disposable camera as a kid, I even remember a photo-developing section in my local Tesco. I loved using those cameras  Honestly they need to be brought back, they were great I think they still sell them.   And finding out they were over exposed, blurred & nice close ups of my thumb Yep! My pictures are quite acceptable these days c/o my iPhone You have clearly not been to @BootsUK with an old camera recently. You can still get film developed. Clearly, but I do still have rolls of undeveloped film. If there kept in a dark place they can still be developed. Imagine what could be on them, sounds fun. I know, but not sure it's worth it if there not still viable.  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.