This subscription service is a semi-annual or annual, comparative review of a program's performance that is designed to help educators and administrators identify their program's areas of strength and weakness. Jurisdictional and national rankings are used to describe the program's strengths and weakness regarding: client needs, the nursing process, categories of human functioning and health alterations, the wellness-illness continuum, the stages of maturity and stress-adaptation-coping. Program-specific information is reported provided at least 10 first-time candidates tested within the six-month reporting period. Candidate-specific information is not available. Canadian nursing education programs can now begin registering for the NCLEX Program Reports on the Mountain Measurement website. Programs can also find detailed information on NCLEX program report subscription cost and general information on the NCLEX program reports on the Mountain Measurement website.  This subscription service is a semi-annual or annual, comparative review of a program's performance that is designed to help educators and administrators identify their program's areas of strength and weakness. specific and national comparison reports of graduates' performances on the NCLEX examination. Performance results, test plan profiles and content dimension reports are all included. Jurisdictional and national rankings are used to describe the program's strengths and weakness with regard to the following: Program-specific information is reported provided for at least 10 first-time candidates tested within the six-month reporting period. Candidate-specific information is not available. Reports are released in May and November; subscriptions are open to nursing schools only. Subscriptions for NCLEX-RN Program and NCLEX-PN Program Semi-Annual or Annual Reports are currently $350.00 and $225.00 respectively. Additionally, a joint annual and semi-annual subscription is $525 for RN programs and $337.5 for PN programs. The NCLEX program reports will be available for subscription by Canadian nursing programs in 2015. To order, please call 1.800.261.6227 or visit NCLEX Program Reports. Publication This subscription service is a semi-annual or annual, comparative review of a program's performance that is designed to help educators and administrators identify their program's areas of strength and weakness. specific and national comparison reports of graduates' performances on the NCLEX examination. Performance results, test plan profiles and content dimension reports are all included. Jurisdictional and national rankings are used to describe the program's strengths and weakness with regard to the following: Program-specific information is reported provided for at least 10 first-time candidates tested within the six-month reporting period. Candidate-specific information is not available. Reports are released in May and November; subscriptions are open to nursing schools only. Subscriptions for NCLEX-RN Program and NCLEX-PN Program Semi-Annual or Annual Reports are currently $350.00 and $225.00 respectively. Additionally, a joint annual and semi-annual subscription is $525 for RN programs and $337.5 for PN programs. The NCLEX program reports will be available for subscription by Canadian nursing programs in 2015. To order, please call 1.800.261.6227 or visit NCLEX Program Reports. Publication Join hundreds of educators across the country who subscribe to NCLEX Program Reports. These reports are the only source for detailed information about your graduates' performance on the NCLEX examinations. Publication ©2019 National Council of State Boards of Nursing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.