Inclusion and support for students includes enhancing services for underrepresented students and creating intersectional partnerships among our support programs. The Center for Multicultural Advancement and Student Success is committed to working with students, student leaders, faculty, and administrators regarding issues that affect the quality of education and campus life. The programs within this office include Academic Support, Cultural Enrichment, Institutional Diversity and Student Development. The Center for Women and Community (CWC) provides leadership opportunities, educational workshops and trainings; counseling, advocacy and support services, and information and referral services on campus and for all of Hampshire County. CWC is also the Rape Crisis Center for the campus and surrounding county, offering 24-hour confidential support to those affected by sexual or relationship violence, including survivors, their family and friends. Center for Women and Community's mission is to provide leadership in promoting educational access and equity for women, to empower women to take full control of their lives and to strengthen the connections among women. The Women of Color Leadership Network (WOCLN) provides a home away from home for African American, Latina, Asian American, Native American, Middle Eastern American, multiracial, and multicultural women. WOCLN provides advocacy, coaching, mentoring, internships, and a wide range of workshops and events, all with the aim of strengthening self-identity as well as community. The Men and Masculinities Center supports male student success and the development of masculine identity that is healthy for individuals and communities at UMass Amherst. Using a male-positive, multicultural, and pro-feminist perspective, the Center promotes healthy relationships and positive expressions of masculinity; provides programs to support male students to explore the intersections of male identities; and fosters men’s healthy and positive development through scholarship, leadership development, outreach, and advocacy. The Office of Religious and Spiritual Life provides individual and institutional advocacy, interfaith dialogue, and other educational and bridge-building activities designed to foster an informed, caring and supportive campus community for students of all backgrounds and beliefs. It also serves as the liaison between the University and the private religious organizations and advisers who provide pastoral counseling and other religious services for our students. The Stonewall Center provides support, advocacy, and programming for LGBT and allied students, staff, and faculty at UMass Amherst and for the larger Pioneer Valley. The Center seeks to educate the campus and local community about heterosexism, genderism, and sexual and gender prejudice in order to create a more inclusive and welcoming climate for bisexual, gay, lesbian, queer, and transgender individuals and their allies. The Veteran Student Resource Center is a central place on campus to study, relax, meet other student veterans and learn about and access resources. The SVRC hosts a variety of workshops throughout the year, to help you to stay informed and provide support. Stop by for a cup of coffee!   Diversity Matters is a comprehensive website where you can find information about the exemplary work that is being done in the area of diversity on our campus and in the local community. UMass Amherst Diversity Events and Programs Calendar  Center for Counseling and Psychological Health Center for Multicultural Advancement and Student Success Center for Women & Community Dean of Students Disability Services Family Support Services International Programs Office Men and Masculinities Office of Religious and Spiritual Life Student Bridges Stonewall Center Upward Bound Veteran Services Women of Color Leadership Network ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact