Welcome to the University of Massachusetts Amherst. UMass Amherst is ranked in the top 30 among more than 700 public colleges and universities in the nation. Reflective of our rising stature, applications to the flagship campus increased by 36 percent between 2010 and 2017, from 30,853 to 41,922. Concurrently, the academic profile of those applicants continues to climb, resulting in the highest achieving student body in the history of the campus. In support of our momentum, a wave of new and renovated campus facilities have opened over the past few years—giving our faculty and students access to a cutting-edge research and learning environment. These resources include the Commonwealth Honors College Residential Community, the Integrative Learning Center, the Integrated Sciences Building, the Life Science Laboratories, South College, and the nationally renowned Design Building. In addition to educating the next generation of commonwealth citizens, our research enterprise is a powerhouse, touching and transforming communities in the state and around the world. Our research expenditures totaled more than $200 million in fiscal year 2016. We are the only public university in Massachusetts classified as “Doctoral Universities: Highest Research Activity,” the highest classification attainable. UMass Amherst is the fourth-largest recipient of research funding from the National Science Foundation. We were also very excited to have successfully concluded UMass Rising, a comprehensive campaign for the university. Surpassing its goal of $300 million for a total of $379 million, UMass Rising is the largest private fundraising effort in the history of public higher education in the commonwealth. While we have accomplished much, we look forward to achieving more as we continue on our path of unprecedented momentum. I am proud to lead the flagship campus of the commonwealth during one of the most exciting times in our history. Welcome and GO UMASS! Kumble R. Subbaswamy Chancellor Links [1] https://www.umass.edu/chancellor/welcome