Who can help me find information? Where do I begin my research? How do I search? How can I get help with technology? IT User Services offers IT consulting and support services to members of the university community from 8:30 a.m. to 4;45 p.m., Monday through Friday, except when the University is closed to holidays, administrative closings, or inclement weather. The technical staff is certified to repair and consult on most software and hardware products, including popular computer brands. They support essential campus services such as Email, Network Connectivity, and more. They're available via email (it@umass.edu) or phone (413-545-9400). Additional information can be found by visiting their website directly. How do I access electronic resources? Off-Campus users of Electronic Resources (Databases and E-Books) should use their SPIRE username and password when asked for a username and password when logging into library resources. Patrons having problems with electronic resources should contact Research Services through Ask-A-Librarian How do I get help with writing? The Writing Center works with undergrad, grad, staff, post-doc, and faculty writers at any stage of the writing process: brainstorming and outlining, getting feedback on a draft, developing revision strategies, learning to copy edit one's work, and more. They also work with writers to understand the genres, styles, and norms of writing in their disciplines. Their staff is available to meet online with writers in 45-minute sessions. During a session, they'll design the agenda collaboratively: writers and tutors work together to create short and long-term writing goals, have a conversation about the writing, and generate strategies for the writer to enact on their own. Tutoring sessions are free, and are reserved for 45 minutes. For more information, or to make an appointment, visit their website. Are there other things I should know about as an Off-Campus User? Library Distance Education Card UMass Amherst Distance Education students are eligible for Distance Learning ID Card which is exchangeable for a campus UCard upon visiting the ID office in Whitmore Administration Building. This card is completely optional. The Distance Learning ID card contains the patrons barcode which is needed for some library services. Your barcode is also available from SPIRE (directions are below). Library Barcode The Library Barcode is also available through SPIRE. To find your barcode, log into SPIRE and choose "My Personal Information" from the "Main Menu" at the top of the page. When on the "My Personal Information" page, choose "Library Barcode" from the options presented. Library Express The UMass Amherst Libraries offers a service called Library Express which provides direct delivery of regularly circulating books from the university library collections. There is no fee for this service at this time. All current or retired faculty or staff and current students are eligible for the Library Express service. More information. Disability Services Disability Services at UMass Amherst is committed to full access for all persons at the University of Massachusetts Amherst and embraces the philosophy of diversity and multiculturalism. Direct services are provided for all types of disability. Disability Services also provides information and referral on issues of accessibility, as well as training and staff development to the University Community. If you require accommodations, visit their website.  © 2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact