Starting in March of next year, we will no longer offer the app login product Account Kit. In order to provide our valued developers and partners with adequate time to prepare for the change, the deprecation will occur in multiple phases:September 9, 2019: Account Kit will stop integrating with new apps. Existing integrations will continue to... September 09 2019 Today, we're announcing new tools and platform updates for the millions of businesses and hundreds of thousands of developers on Messenger that are designed to improve the user experience for people, and create more opportunities to drive business outcomes, on Messenger.New Solutions for Developers and Businesses on Messenger... August 29 2019 We are introducing the Playable Preview Tool, a new way to test and validate assets used in Playable Ads. With Playable Ads, potential customers can preview a mobile app before downloading it. The Playable Preview Tool helps ensure your playable ad assets are free of errors by:... August 22 2019 As announced earlier today, we'll begin rolling out a feature that gives people more transparency and control over the data other apps and websites share with us. We believe that giving people transparency and control is good for businesses and developers as people will be more informed on how their information is used and feel better about the... August 20 2019 We’re committed to protecting people from discrimination on Facebook and, as part of this commitment, we announced changes earlier this year to all ads that offer housing, employment and credit opportunities.Advertisers, developers and partners must specify whether or not their ads fall under either the category of housing, employment or credit.... August 15 2019 Today, we’re excited to announce that Facebook’s Spark AR platform is moving out of its Instagram publishing closed beta. Now anyone can create and publish their own Spark AR effects on Instagram. Visit spark.facebook.com to download Spark AR Studio and get started, or join the Spark AR Community Facebook Group to connect with creators, find... August 13 2019 Oculus Connect 6 applications are now being accepted, and this year’s developer conference is sure to elevate how you design, develop and distribute immersive games and applications. Whether you’re developing consumer-focused VR games or the next immersive enterprise solution, we look forward to sharing these insights with you.... July 31 2019 We've released the newest versions of Graph API (v4.0) and Marketing API (v4.0). The changes include improvements to managing business assets, ad creation, and Facebook Ad Insights. We're also announcing updates to Messenger API and the Facebook SDK and improvements to rate limiting.Starting with this release, the Graph API will be transitioning to... July 29 2019 Earlier this week, we announced our settlement with the FTC and a new framework for protecting people’s privacy and the information they choose to share. We are building an enhanced privacy program that will introduce changes not only to how Facebook handles data, but also how we hold partners accountable for managing data.In practice, this means... July 26 2019 Can't find what you're looking for? Try our other Developer Blogs.