Top-class live music from some of the world's finest musicians. Read more Johann Sebastian Bach Concerto in D minor for two violins, BWV 1043 Gaetano Donizetti Ah! mes amis...Pour mon âme quel destin! (La Fille du régiment) Jules Massenet Toute mon âme est là! (Werther) Joseph Haydn Symphony No 102 in B flat major (4th mvt) Stevie Wishart Iste confessor Johann Sebastian Bach Orchestral Suite No 1 in C major, BWV 1066 (Passepied 1 and 2) Stevie Wishart Improvisation with the call of the Hooded Grebe Franz Schubert Piano Sonata in B-Flat Major, D. 960: IV. Allegro ma non troppo Antonio Vivaldi Violin Concerto in E major, RV 265 (1st mvt) Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky Piano Concerto No 1 in B flat minor Op 23 (3rd mvt) Robert Fayrfax Eternae laudis lilium (Part 1) Orlando Gibbons The Silver Swan Robert Fayrfax Eternae laudis lilium (Part 2) Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart Così fan tutte (Overture) Francis Poulenc Les chemins de l'amour Georges Bizet Toreador (Los Toreros) Ludwig van Beethoven Violin Concerto in D major, Op 61 (3rd mvt) Domenico Scarlatti Sonata in C major, Kk.420 Now playing Juan Diego Flórez, The Sixteen, Stevie Wishart Top-class live music from some of the world's finest musicians. 120 mins The Furrow Collective, Fidelio Trio, Ryan Bancroft Top-class live music from some of the world's finest musicians. 120 mins Songs of Innocence and Experience Music inspired by William Blake, with Verity Sharp. 90 mins The Dissolution of Genres: Symphonic Quartets Armida Quartet plays string quartets by Haydn, Janacek and Schubert. John Shea presents. 360 mins Thursday - Petroc's classical picks Petroc Trelawny presents Radio 3's classical breakfast show, featuring listener requests. 150 mins Essential Classics with Ian Skelly: George Alagiah, The Shrewsbury Buttermarket Wurlitzer, Haydn's 'La Chasse' Refresh your morning with a great selection of classical music, presented by Ian Skelly. 180 mins Mendelssohn and Bartok from the 2019 Cheltenham Music Festival Georgia Mann presents music by Mendelssohn and Bartok from the Cheltenham Music Festival. 57 mins