Boris Johnson denies lying over his reasons for the shutdown, after Scottish judges rule it unlawful. Boris Johnson denies lying over his reasons for the shutdown, after Scottish judges rule it unlawful. Labour wants MPs to return to Parliament to scrutinise the government's plans for no deal. The father of 11-month-old Zakari Bennett is being questioned on suspicion of his son's murder. A notice on the restaurant chain's menu asked customers to tell staff about allergies, an inquest hears. The number of people convicted for rape has fallen to its lowest level since records began a decade ago. Police make "pre-emptive" arrests after activist group said it plans to fly the devices on Friday. The skydivers filmed the aircraft passing directly beneath them on a helmet camera, a report reveals. Boris Johnson denies lying over his reasons for the shutdown, after Scottish judges rule it unlawful. Labour wants MPs to return to Parliament to scrutinise the government's plans for no deal. The father of 11-month-old Zakari Bennett is being questioned on suspicion of his son's murder. A notice on the restaurant chain's menu asked customers to tell staff about allergies, an inquest hears. The number of people convicted for rape has fallen to its lowest level since records began a decade ago. Police make "pre-emptive" arrests after activist group said it plans to fly the devices on Friday. The skydivers filmed the aircraft passing directly beneath them on a helmet camera, a report reveals. Labour wants MPs to return to Parliament to scrutinise the government's plans for no deal. The father of 11-month-old Zakari Bennett is being questioned on suspicion of his son's murder. A notice on the restaurant chain's menu asked customers to tell staff about allergies, an inquest hears. One survivor who struggled to access support says the service could help prevent further "psychological damage". It comes after the government's Brexit assessments warn supplies could be disrupted. Housing officers believe new properties could "remove the stigma" and tempt people to live there. Labour wants MPs to return to Parliament to scrutinise the government's plans for no deal. A Welsh minister says no amount of preparation can cope with the disruption the paper outlines. Inspectors say they are not convinced "reasonable alternatives" have been considered. The union Unite has welcomed the announcement that a consortium led by Babcock is to build a new generation of Royal Navy frigate. The ships will be assembled at Rosyth in Fife. But, Steve Turner, the union's assistant general secretary for manufacturing, says that it is "just one piece in the jigsaw needed to secure the future of UK shipbuilding and the thousands of jobs that it sustains in communities across the country. "It was always going to be the case that these Royal Navy warships would be built here in UK yards. "The government must ensure these ships are built using UK steel and that UK firms in the manufacturing supply chain reap the economic benefits". Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News