Apply Now Apply Now Accommodations Jump! students will stay in a freshman residence hall in the modern, fully air-conditioned Commonwealth Honors College Residential Community. Program Assistants (PA's) are assigned to live on the same floor with the students. They are experienced and socially involved UMass undergrads, and most of them work as Residential Assistants (RA's) during the school year. The PA's act as mentors, get participants situated on campus, lead them in various activities, and provide insight into how to manage social and academic life. A Residence Hall Director lives in the residence hall throughout the program and is on-call at night. The Residence Hall Director is a trained member of the UMass Res Life program and offers support, guidance, and night-time supervision. Dorms are co-ed, and each student is assigned a roommate. UMass Amherst is ranked #1 in the country for campus food by the Princeton Review! Students can choose from several dining commons and cafes on campus for meals. The University’s award-winning food service provides a variety of choices (including vegetarian and vegan options) for each meal. It’s not unusual at one meal to have a choice between sushi, pho noodles, create-your-own stir-fry, pizza, a pasta bar, or the deli station. Not to mention the soft-serve sundae bar. Three meals a day are included with room & board. Students can use their meal card swipes at campus cafes as well as the dining commons. UMass Dining Jump! at UMass Amherst is much more than just going to class every day. During your program, there will be plenty of activities to keep you engaged, informed, and supported outside the classroom. Most social events take place during the evenings and on weekends. Program Assistants will run activities and trips students are very encouraged to join. Events may include activities in the local area, such as hiking and visits to museums, as well as excursions to Boston and the greater New England region. There's something for everyone to enjoy! Weekend excursion examples: • White Water Rafting • Picnics and swimming • Six Flags New England Theme Park • MASS MoCA (Museum of Cotemporary Art) • Boston sightseeing  Social and Academic Workshops • PA Help Desk Hours • Guided Study Nights • Time Management Workshop  All UMass Amherst residence halls are locked 24 hours per day, and campus is patrolled 24/7 by the UMass Police Department. Access to the Jump! residence hall is restricted to assigned residents and staff. The residence hall security desk is manned from 5pm – 11pm Monday – Thursday, and 5pm – 12am on Fridays and Saturdays. UMass Summer Programs is hosted by Continuing & Professional Education. Our programs range from college-level courses for high school students to Intensive English programs for adult learners. summerprograms@umass.edu UMass Summer Programs 408 Goodell 140 Hicks Way Amherst, MA 01003 413-577-2112 summerprograms@umass.edu Facebook Twitter ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact