Essential Classics with Ian Skelly: George Alagiah, The Shrewsbury Buttermarket Wurlitzer, Haydn's 'La Chasse' Clara Schumann and Her Circle Mendelssohn and Bartok from the 2019 Cheltenham Music Festival Prom 60 repeat: Vienna Philharmonic and Bernard Haitink Erwin Schrott, Walter Sutcliffe, Veles Ensemble Top-class live music from some of the world's finest musicians. 2019 Piazzolla and Dvorak from Thibaut Garcia and the Aris Quartet 2019 Tai Shani Baroque Biber Standout performances from star players, unexpected moments and a load of surprises.. Forget social media influencers - the meat-free movement started with the Victorians. With the Staatskapelle Dresden conducted by Myung-Whun Chung. In one of his last public concerts, Haitink conducts Beethoven and Bruckner. Here's everything you need to know about our festive competition for amateur composers. Five tracks from the electrifying Lost Words Prom, illustrated by Jackie Morris. Immerse yourself in music with binaural mixes from the Proms. We broadcast more live and specially-recorded concerts and opera than any other station. Georgia Mann presents music by Mendelssohn and Bartok from the Cheltenham Music Festival. Live at BBC Proms: John Butt directs the Dunedin Consort in Bach's Orchestral Suites. Georgia Mann presents music by Mozart, Gourzi and Grieg from the Cheltenham Festival. Verity Sharp with a weird Rachmaninov cover and music from Madagascar. Live BBC Proms. Semyon Bychkov conducts the Czech Philharmonic. Georgia Mann presents music by Tchaikovsky and Brahms from the Cheltenham Music Festival Live BBC Proms. Marc Albrecht conducts the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. Creativity, performance, debate Scottish writer AL Kennedy reflects on the ability of our nose to conjure memories. Award-winning chemical romance by Lucy Prebble set during a clinical trial. Might explorations of gender in great art of the past illuminate current gender issues? Brian Sibley guides Eleanor Rosamund Barraclough around the home of Winnie the Pooh. Maritime archaeologists race against time and the tide at a submerged Mesolithic site. Matthew Sweet looks at the impact of the Kinsey Report, first published seventy years ago. Literature and music that explores the opposing worlds of meat-eating and vegetarianism. Electrifying Jazz and World music. Houston Person in concert, presented by Soweto Kinch. Geoffrey Smith celebrates the live recordings of saxophone great Sonny Rollins. How Val Wilmer became a world figure in the documentation of Black music and culture... The bass virtuoso shares inspiring tracks. Plus, UK saxophonist Leo Richardson in session. Jazz records from across the genre, as requested by Radio 3 listeners. Music from the Longest Johns, Leadbelly and field recordings from Chechnya and Java. Turkish duo Çi?dem Aslan and Tahir Palali join Lopa Kothari in the studio. Fascinating articles and features from Radio 3 and the BBC Proms The production team shares five of Donald Macleod’s best stories from the last 20 years… Are we born musical? And can music affect development? Tom Service investigates. Harry doesn't usually give interviews – but he couldn't say no to Michael Berkeley. In Folk, Sarah Walker finds distinctive voices and a bridge twixt tradition and modernity Sunday Morning presenter Sarah Walker chooses eleven favourite quotes about creativity. 1936 to 1953: five pieces symbolising events of their time, from resilience to renewal. The composer of Jerusalem was very far from the conservative figure his image suggests. More from BBC Radio 3 Find out what's on BBC Radio 3, day by day. How to listen to Radio 3 and what to do if you want to contact us. How BBC Radio manages your personal data.  Sign in to the BBC, or Register