We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes It’s our job to #GoThere & tell the most difficult stories. Join us! For more breaking news updates follow @CNNBRK & Download our app ?http://cnn.com/apps You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. Somewhere in the Pacific, a stealthy United States Navy warship is carrying new weapons that analysts say could help to tilt the balance of power in contested areas like the South China Seahttps://cnn.it/34EHBza Not even sure this isn't WH propaganda... That’s nice now the media is leaking info what happened to classified?pic.twitter.com/Sxx51jEs08 It’s not classified! Ooh somewhere is Asia is dictator (@realDonaldTrump ) best bud (Kim) and showing Kim’s capability! great. Nice to Know that pic.twitter.com/Ar57A6M6Wm this is over kill. China does not have a blue water navy as yet. any expense on such missile is sheer waste at this time.Chinese are otherwise good at reverse technology and would soon make a cheaper copy of this missilepic.twitter.com/aZmLnLDWl2 lasers on that 1 billion dollar battleship Well, it’s a good thing no one broadcast that to the world on twitter or anything... This would be fine if those weapons were under the control of any other president than the little boy we have now. But you know he looks at this like a kid with a new toy. And considering his narcissism, no doubt he'd be happy to start a war that kills us all. Like with all the @realDonaldTrump brand, including his MAGA hats, all the parts are manufactured in China.... And now the Chinese and Russians know about it.. CNN will do absolutely anything to destroy this country's intelligence apparatus God bless our President Trump @realDonaldTrumppic.twitter.com/RWM2ftm2i4 Save money and use all those B61 nukes, they're already paid for.  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.