Schedule Diplo and friends, exclusively in the mix. Nastia delivers an hour of pumping techno for the first show of her residency. The hottest D&B with Rene, with a Guest Mix provided by Makoto. Annie bigs up Lethal Bizzle for his birthday and Noise Cans returns with a Quest Mix. Nabihah is in for Benji with future beats from around the world. Toddla has a Coldest from Kano and highlights from his Maida Vale Session! Billboard-topping Canadian rapper Nav talks music with Kan D Man and DJ Limelight. It's Friday night and Kenny Allstar has you covered with brand new UK rap and more! Belgian techno DJ Charlotte de Witte is back for another six-month Residency. The hottest sounds out of Africa - Afrobeats from all corners of the motherland. The sound of 1Xtra, uninterrupted. The sound of 1Xtra, uninterrupted. Dan and James meet a man who offers 'talking therapy' to people who don’t want to be gay. The sound of 1Xtra, uninterrupted. The sound of 1Xtra, uninterrupted. The sound of 1Xtra, uninterrupted. Jeremiah's in for Twin with new tunes and voices across the spectrum of music and culture. Nadia's in for Jamz and heads into the world of future R&B. Big Zuu co-hosts the show with his long-time friend and collaborator Capo Lee. Rising singer Sevana chats to Seani and performs a live version of her track 'Nobody Man'! Walker & Royce in the mix exclusively for Diplo and friends - only on 1Xtra and Radio 1. Nabihah is in for Benji with future beats from around the world. Nina Las Vegas in the mix exclusively for Diplo and friends - only on 1Xtra and Radio 1. Dotty brings music and mayhem to 1Xtra's Breakfast Show. Dotty brings music and mayhem to 1Xtra's Breakfast Show. Dotty brings music and mayhem to 1Xtra's Breakfast Show. Dotty interviews Wiley, and he has a lot to say about Ed Sheeran, Drake and more. Dotty brings music and mayhem to 1Xtra's Breakfast Show. Mim has control of 1Xtra's weekend breakfast show. Mim has control of 1Xtra's weekend breakfast show. Ace catches up with Damon the Barber to find out about the weekend's Barbershop debate. The home of the 1Xtra Live Lounge. The home of the 1Xtra Live Lounge. Everything R&B with DJ Ace. Ali Plumb reviews Hustlers with Jennifer Lopez, Cardi B, Constance Wu and Keke Palmer. Big hits, games and a massive Midday Mix. Chill Sunday vibes and the Request Hour with Sideman. Jesy from Little Mix has opened up about the devastating impact of online trolls. Is there going to be a general election, and what is McFly's big announcement? The latest news from around the UK and around the world. What is the worst that could happen if there is a no-deal Brexit? The latest news from around the UK and around the world. Music, gossip and entertainment. Music, gossip and entertainment. Music, gossip and entertainment. Music, gossip and entertainment. Music, gossip and entertainment. Jamz takes you to church with a gospel inspired Pass the Aux. 1Xtra's biggest hits and the best new music. MistaJam puts Nadia Jae to the test in Ps and Qs with her specialist subject, 90s R&B! MistaJam has another Co-Sign and finds out the best midnight food spots in your area! 1Xtra's biggest hits and the best new music. 1Xtra's biggest hits and the best new music. 1Xtra's biggest hits and the best new music. 1Xtra's biggest hits and the best new music. Trevor takes it Old Skool with the biggest R&B and hip-hop classics. The latest news from around the UK and around the world. The latest news from around the UK and around the world. The latest news from around the UK and around the world. Why is Wiley so angry? We chat to 1xtra's Dotty about their interview. The latest news from around the UK and around the world. MistaJam jumps into the mix with an hour of D&B and jungle for the Traffic Jam mix! 1Xtra's biggest hits and the best new music. 1Xtra's biggest hits and the best new music. MistaJam has a Jam Hot from Jungle Brown and Wiley Traffic Jam mix! 1Xtra's biggest hits and the best new music. Tonight's Target Embargo is courtesy of Eugy and Wavy The Creator. Slowthai and Denzel Curry premiere their new single for tonight's Target Embargo. Wretch 32 is in the studio and Kano performs six live tracks from BBC Maida Vale Studios. Target has 1Xtra's ultimate guide to new music. DJ Charlesy has 1Xtra's official start to the weekend with a Twenty2Mix from DJ Hains. Target has a classic 2Pac mix and highlights from Kano's Maida Vale session. Rodigan has a scorcher from Maxi Priest and talks to Khalia. New tunes and new voices from across the spectrum of music and culture. Live session tracks from JGrrey and an After Dark Discovery from Leo Bhanji. Afro-influenced global beats with Tash LC on the 1Xtra Residency. Legendary artist Kabaka Pyramid drops in for a chat and mad freestyle. Kenny brings the sounds of the streets to 1Xtra. All the latest hits and heat from the world of hip-hop. We explore what's behind Top Boy - just in time for the highly anticipated Season 3. The hottest sounds out of Africa - Afrobeats from all corners of the motherland. Late night music and chat with Snoochie on 1Xtra. Afro B joins Shy on the show! K-Trap joins Shy in the studio. Ambush is talking about his new track Only Right, and also takes on Shot or Not. The best in grime, freestyles and all the news from the scene with Sir Spyro. Diplo and friends, exclusively in the mix. Please choose a day from the calendar