Nicola Sturgeon and her health secretary come under fire over further delays to Edinburgh's new children's hospital. Nicola Sturgeon and her health secretary come under fire over further delays to Edinburgh's new children's hospital. A legal case is lodged seeking to force the prime minister to comply with legislation passed by MPs. The £1.25bn deal secures hundreds of jobs at Rosyth in Fife, where the ships will be assembled. Five parades were banned this weekend after sectarian disturbances over the past two weeks. Campaigners are calling for patients in other parts of the UK to be allowed to access the treatment. What are the prospects of the multi-billion pound construction project becoming a reality? Edinburgh University pays tribute to the 21-year-old who fell from the third floor of a tenement. Nicola Sturgeon and her health secretary come under fire over further delays to Edinburgh's new children's hospital. A legal case is lodged seeking to force the prime minister to comply with legislation passed by MPs. The £1.25bn deal secures hundreds of jobs at Rosyth in Fife, where the ships will be assembled. Five parades were banned this weekend after sectarian disturbances over the past two weeks. Campaigners are calling for patients in other parts of the UK to be allowed to access the treatment. What are the prospects of the multi-billion pound construction project becoming a reality? Edinburgh University pays tribute to the 21-year-old who fell from the third floor of a tenement. A legal case is lodged seeking to force the prime minister to comply with legislation passed by MPs. The £1.25bn deal secures hundreds of jobs at Rosyth in Fife, where the ships will be assembled. Five parades were banned this weekend after sectarian disturbances over the past two weeks. All four Englishwomen in Europe's Solheim Cup team feature in Friday's foursomes at Gleneagles with Bronte Law in the opening match. Brian Taylor Political editor, Scotland In court judgements, no-deal planning documents and indeed parliamentary debate - words matter. A legal case is lodged seeking to force the prime minister to comply with legislation passed by MPs. Reevel Alderson Home affairs correspondent, BBC Scotland The BBC's Reevel Alderson explains why the decision by three appeal judges in Edinburgh on the closing of Parliament was an extraordinary move. Rangers manager Steven Gerrard says Scotland have been "careless" with Ryan Jack after the midfielder aggravated a knee problem on international duty. The union Unite has welcomed the announcement that a consortium led by Babcock is to build a new generation of Royal Navy frigate. The ships will be assembled at Rosyth in Fife. But, Steve Turner, the union's assistant general secretary for manufacturing, says that it is "just one piece in the jigsaw needed to secure the future of UK shipbuilding and the thousands of jobs that it sustains in communities across the country. "It was always going to be the case that these Royal Navy warships would be built here in UK yards. "The government must ensure these ships are built using UK steel and that UK firms in the manufacturing supply chain reap the economic benefits". Motherwell sign Ugandan centre-back Bevis Mugabi on a deal until January after he impressed on trial. The 72-year-old had been flown to hospital following the collision involving a campervan and a van in Lewis. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News