We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes The evil Shinra corporation rules the world with an iron fist & continues to spin its web of lies. Have the rebels, known as Avalanche, bitten off more than they can chew? Get your first look at Shinra’s agents, powerful summons, and much more in this trailer from #TGS2019 #FF7Rpic.twitter.com/Yeb23Mz20o Reno plspic.twitter.com/jWhepPvHJM let’s all take a moment to appreciate this glow up #reno #ff7rpic.twitter.com/oO6KAHID9e Advent Children VS Final Fantasy 7 Remakepic.twitter.com/giTHSlUKrg AERITH IS SO PRETTY IN FFVII REMAKEpic.twitter.com/LUW4thODfV I don't see anyone talking about Tifa making PULL-UPS, SHE'S OUR QUEENpic.twitter.com/5RofXyMMOX TIFA LOCKHART IS SO GORGEOUS PLEASE MARRY MEpic.twitter.com/vU3LhYf1VK Tseng looks amazing too.pic.twitter.com/atZmfyQXEi Tseng FFVII 1997 - Crisis Core 2007 - FFVII Remake 2019.pic.twitter.com/hMv682q0GR SHIVA??????????pic.twitter.com/W0mae96DDd can’t believe they put Mr. Worldwide in the final fantasy 7 remakepic.twitter.com/miOe4cIDSc We got the Turks, squats, a glimpse of Aerith’s second dress, a beautiful remaster of “Fight On”, Shiva, RENO’S ENTIRE BARE CHEST, AND IM JUST????pic.twitter.com/loJVrnIDv9 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.