Field Trip Services are available to all University departments and programs; our vehicles can travel anywhere in New England. Our staff will plan routes based on your itinerary and the size of the vehicle, we will also provide cost and travel time estimates.  All transport request and confirmation paperwork must be completed at least two weeks before the trip in order to guarantee a reservation. Groups that will be transporting children should arrange to have adequate adult supervision including at least one representative from the UMass organization sponsoring the trip. UMass buses are not "school bus certified" and do not have school bus lights. Field Trip Services has new premium buses that began field trip operations in the Fall of 2016. Details are available at the premium buses page. For inquiries, please contact Field trip Services directly. When your trip is scheduled you will be given a cost estimate. Your cost will only exceed this estimate if the driver's day ends more than half an hour later than expected, side trips are added that increase the miles traveled, or the vehicle requires excessive cleaning at the end of the day. A cleaning surcharge, typically $60, will be applied if mopping is necessary. Payment must be made by University Recharge. Field Trip customers are sent a Confirmation Form that has a payment section; this form should be completed and faxed back no later than one week before your trip. Current Field Trip Rates The Premium Buses seat 37 seated -or- 33 seated plus one (1) passenger with a mobility device. The school buses comfortably seat 44 adults -or- 40 adults plus one (1) passenger with a mobility device . If your group is larger, please reserve multiple vehicles to accomodate your group. Wheelchair accessible vans accommodate two passengers using mobility devices and up to four seated passengers. No alcohol or smoking is permitted on any of our vehicles. Standees are not permitted on school bus trips. Eating in our vehicles is allowed but we ask that you keep the mess to minimum. For smaller groups and VIP transportation, ask about our Meet and Greet Service parking@umass.edu (413) 577-PARK (7275)  transit@umass.edu (413) 545-0056  transport@umass.edu (413) 545-4682