Jump to navigation The University of Massachusetts Stockbridge School of Agriculture has offered associate of science degrees to students at the Amherst campus since 1918. The Stockbridge School began offering online courses in 2008 and the online program has grown to 23 classes serving more than 500 students each year. Due to the growing interest in online education, the Stockbridge School now offers a fully online A.S. degree in Sustainable Food and Farming. NEW! Online Bachelor of Science degree in Sustainable Food and Farming Please email the Academic Advisor, Renee Ciulla, (rciulla@umass.edu) or call 413-687-1392, if you are interested in being contacted about either of these exciting online degree programs. And keep in mind that your A.S. credits can be rolled into the B.S. degree. The A.S. in Sustainable Food and Farming is designed for those who wish to explore careers in sustainable agriculture but are not able to take classes on campus. The major offers flexibility in designing a personal program of study, allowing students to focus on production and marketing, agricultural education, and/or public policy, advocacy and community development. Students are not required to complete the degree in a set period of time or register for a set number of courses per semester. To know the weekly timeframe for each class, it's best to contact the course instructor, but students can expect to spend anywhere from 4-9 hours per week per class. For those who want to continue their studies after the A.S. degree, the Stockbridge School of Agriculture at UMass Amherst now offers an online Bachelor of Science degree in Sustainable Food & Farming or the on campus B.S. degree in Sustainable Food and Farming. Students are admitted based on their academic record, related experiences, and personal/professional goals. The minimum high school GPA required for admission is 2.0/4.0 scale, recalculated based on the Massachusetts Department of Higher Education standards, which includes grades in English, math, social science, natural science, foreign language, and appropriate elective courses only. Students are expected to have the required number and kind of academic units designated by the Mass Department of Higher Education. Please note that students who have graduated from this online Associate degree and wish to pursue the online Bachelor degree in Sustainable Food and Farming are admissible with a 2.5 GPA, instead of the 2.7 typically required. ? Official college transcripts from all colleges previously attended, regardless of whether or not transfer credit is desired - UMass Amherst does not accept personal copies, unofficial transcripts, or emailed electronic transcripts. ? Official high school transcript – If students have completed fewer than 24 semester credits of college coursework at the time of application, an official high school transcript is also required (unless those college credits include a suitable mathematics course). Four years of high school math are expected, although exceptions may be made. ? Official SAT or ACT scores sent directly to UMass Amherst from the testing agency - If students have completed fewer than 24 semester credits of college coursework at the time of application, official SAT or ACT scores are also required, unless the student has a waiver. Waivers are granted upon request to: students 25 years or older, students from Massachusetts with documented learning disabilities (state law); veterans; students who graduated from high school five or more years ago. The school codes are as follows: SAT 3917 and ACT 1924 ? ESL students – Students whose native language is not English are required to provide proof of English language proficiency, usually by submitting an SAT exam with a critical reading score of 450 or higher or an internet-based TOEFL score of 80 or higher with a writing subscore of 20 or higher. ? Essay –What led you to apply to the UMass Amherst A.S. in Sustainable Food and Farming? What qualifications and traits do you possess that would help you be successful? How would completing this degree program help you meet your personal and/or professional goals? ? If a student has a disciplinary or criminal history, s/he must also provide an explanation, as well as a Transfer Disciplinary Report from the college where the disciplinary incident occurred or CORI report. See application form for more information. NOTE: While we welcome students from New England States, online degree programs are not eligible for reduced tuition through the New England Regional Student Program (NERSP) If you would like to apply for Financial Aid, please complete a FAFSA application: https://fafsa.gov/ The University code is 002221. Any questions related to completing the FAFSA in relation to your UMass financial aid package can be directed to Sharon Ruth: # 413-545-3219. Email: sruth@finaid.umass.edu Please see the CPE Financial Aid website. Alternatively, students are always welcome to meet with a counselor during office hours, call the main number 413.545.0801 or e-mail at Finaid@finaid.umass.edu. It's best to identify yourself as a CPE students to be sure to get the most accurate information. Keep in mind that CPE (online) students typically hear from Financial Aid around July about their financial aid package. Transfer credit for the composition and math requirements is routinely awarded at the time of admission, as well as credit for financial accounting, introduction to management, and introduction to marketing. However, transfer credit for coursework related to program requirements, including practicum credit, is done in consultation with the faculty advisor after admission. Ms. Renee Ciulla is the academic adviser for all students in the online A.S. degree program. You can contact her at: rciulla@umass.edu. Please see here for instructions on how to register for online classes whether you are a non-degree or degree-seeking student. Since this program is fully online there are no visas required, and therefore no barriers for any international student to apply and take classes. Keep in mind that if a student would like to come to campus to participate in a commencement, or other type of formal meeting, they would need to do so on a visitor's visa, not a student visa. Students who have attended universities outside of the US are asked to have their official transcripts evaluated by a professional organization. Please see the following website for more information: https://www.umass.edu/cpe/enroll/international-students Please see here for more information about the State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement UMass Amherst uses the American Council on Education (ACE) guidelines and applies the same standards to credits for military education as those applied to coursework from accredited colleges and universities. The JST military transcript is available in electronic format only and may be requested via the Joint Services Transcript (JST) website. Please view the UMass Amherst Disability Services website and make note that it is necessary to complete an online intake form before any accommodations will be made by an online instructor. Questions can be directed to the Interim Co-Director of Disability Services, AnnMarie Duchon. Email: aduchon@umass.edu, Phone # 413-545-0892, Office: 233 Whitmore Building. Or Disability Services coordinator Jackie Walton can speak with students and explain the process to get disability accommodations. Her email is jwalton@admin.umass.edu or phone is 413-545-0892. Students can transfer up to 30 credits from a previous degree towards their 60 credit AS degree. All previous credit can be used to complete degree requirements, but it's important to keep in mind that the UMass AS degree requirements still have to be met. Therefore, there is a chance that few or no electives, for example, will transfer over. “I was offered my dream job this spring, thanks largely to what I've learned in this program. I'm the Sustainable Food Systems Program Coordinator for Penn State's Commonwealth campuses, based at the Behrend College. It's been incredible. I had no idea when I started all of this that my dream job would be created just in time...but something drew me strongly to this UMass program, and I love how things evolved!” –Katie Chriest "I have really been enjoying this program. I wanted to get a Master Gardener certificate, but am so glad I ran across this program online. I'm sure I would not have been able to attend a campus with a full time job and two teenage daughters." "I like everything about the classes: my increasing interest, the reading materials, class structure, task requirements for blackboard, self-paced tasks, reminders, and instructor knowledge and careful comments.” “I'm amazed by the depth of knowledge each instructor has, and the great thoughts and ideas of my fellow classmates. Like seeds scattered on fertile ground, good things will come of all this…" “I've learned an incredible amount and feel as though my perspective has widened…the global realities are personal to people, which makes the material and insight shared all the more valuable.” "These classes keep me motivated…and it shows that my instructors care by all their attentive feedback. I think it is very important to have this open interaction…” "I learned more than I thought I was capable of and I looking forward to trying out many of the things that I have learned.” "I have thoroughly enjoyed the rich palette of courses this program offers, with great professors who have an in-depth knowledge of the subject matter. I found the program and its platform allowed me to access the class from anywhere and also at any time of the day or night. This accessibility enabled me to work classes into my already very busy life. Many of the students I attended class with were from New England ranging from fulltime students to those already gardening or farming. This built up a regional understanding and a new network of peers to share information. Additionally, we also had classmates from other parts of the country which provided yet another layer of richness to the classes. I found discussion forums in the Sustainable Food and Farming program added a fantastic depth; the professors also comment, help facilitate the discussions and add valuable content. It was just like being in the classroom; a rich and rewarding exchange between people." -- Arthur Hildreth Jr., Dedham, MA "As a passionate farmer, taking the time to sit on a school bench again seemed a difficult decision; not wanting to miss a single season at the farm yet wanting to be up-to-date in the field and take charge of the farm successfully and even more sustainable. This is what pushed me toward the online program; I could do both, and adjust my studying periods with my farmer's schedule. Certainly it demanded a fair amount of self-discipline but the online format fit my needs perfectly: easy to understand and navigate through, with amazing courses and teachers striving to help you succeed. Something I also really appreciated was the wide array of courses which enabled me to select ones I needed most for my situation. I thoroughly enjoyed every class, as the tools it gave me were applicable in real life. In addition of giving the nuts and bolts of sustainable farming, most courses permitted me to develop a personal project; work on challenges faced at our farm and find solutions to them, and develop new ideas, with advice and guidance! In the end, I gained a very much appreciated self-confidence." --Gloria Fortin, New Earth Organic Farm, Québec, Canada Herbs, Spices and Medicinal Plants (GenED – 4 cr) -- Is taught by Dr. Christopher Hobbs, a fourth-generation, internationally renowned herbalist, licensed acupuncturist, author, clinician, botanist, mycologist, and research scientist with over 35 years of experience with herbal medicine. Christopher has a doctorate from UC Berkeley in phylogenetics, evolutionary biology and phytochemistry. He is also a founding member of the American Herbalists Guild and resides in Davis, CA. http://www.christopherhobbs.com Practical Beekeeping (3 credits) -- Is taught by Angela Roell, a dynamic and passionate teacher, whose farm supports an educational space, homestead and apiary. She raises honeybees and foraging plants on 21 acres of sandy loam in the heart of the Franklin County, Massachusetts. http://www.yardbirdsfarm.com/ Intro to Food and Ag Law (3 credits) -- Is taught by Rachel Armstrong, the founder and Executive Director of Farm Commons, a nonprofit organization dedicated to providing proactive legal education materials to sustainable farmers. She founded the organization after a career as a farm employee and local food system advocate. Education is the core of Farm Commons’ programming and Rachel is a sought-after instructor who makes the law relevant and interesting to farmers and attorneys alike. Rachel is licensed to practice law in Minnesota (where she lives) and Wisconsin. She earned her law degree from the University of Denver. Intro to Mushroom Culture (1 credit) -- Is taught by Willie Crosby who runs a successful mushroom farm in Hadley, MA that grows shiitake, oyster, and lions mane mushrooms. He also provide spawn and ready to fruit kits to commercial mushroom farms, sells to markets such as WholeFoods and offers a mushroom CSA. His mission is to reveal the power of mushrooms so more people can benefit from working with fungi and is committed to developing sustainable growing practices that improve the health of his customers, community, and environment. http://www.fungially.com  Thinking about a career change! Did you know that UMass was ranked 8th best Global Agricultural University and 3rd best in the U.S. in 2014.  ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact 