The father of 11-month-old Zakari Bennett is being questioned on suspicion of his son's murder. The father of 11-month-old Zakari Bennett is being questioned on suspicion of his son's murder. Maciej Wasiewicz "slammed" the oven into his friend's head, causing a bleed on the brain. A notice on the restaurant chain's menu asked customers to tell staff about allergies, an inquest hears. The unmanned aircraft came with 10ft (3m) of the Yorkshire Air Ambulance helicopter, bosses say. Police make "pre-emptive" arrests after activist group said it plans to fly the devices on Friday. Father-of-one Lance Martin was stabbed in the back four times by Clara Butler during the row. The father of 11-month-old Zakari Bennett is being questioned on suspicion of his son's murder. Maciej Wasiewicz "slammed" the oven into his friend's head, causing a bleed on the brain. A notice on the restaurant chain's menu asked customers to tell staff about allergies, an inquest hears. The unmanned aircraft came with 10ft (3m) of the Yorkshire Air Ambulance helicopter, bosses say. Police make "pre-emptive" arrests after activist group said it plans to fly the devices on Friday. Father-of-one Lance Martin was stabbed in the back four times by Clara Butler during the row. Maciej Wasiewicz "slammed" the oven into his friend's head, causing a bleed on the brain. A notice on the restaurant chain's menu asked customers to tell staff about allergies, an inquest hears. Greig Watson Reporter, BBC News Online BBC reporter Stuart Woodman said some people returning from work can’t get back into their homes on Vicarage Close in Newbold Coleorton. He said: “Half the village are out on the street and wondering what on earth is happening. They are surprised and shocked. “Some of the residents were told to go back into their homes and told to shut their curtains and go to the backs of their houses.” A notice on the restaurant chain's menu asked customers to tell staff about allergies, an inquest hears. Those behind the petition say the prime minister "does not represent our views". About 150 canisters of the gas were unearthed at Roughton Moor in Lincolnshire in 2017. Lancashire beat Derbyshire by an innings to win promotion back to Division One with two games to spare. Sussex tighten their grip over Gloucestershire at Bristol in Division Two as the hosts finish day three on 197-6. Greig Watson Reporter, BBC News Online A 29-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of making or possessing explosives after three houses in a Leicestershire village were evacuated. Police went to a property on Vicarage Close, Newbold Coleorton, earlier and an army bomb disposal team was then called. Officers said there was no evidence of any links to terrorism. The suspect remains in custody and there is still a cordon in place, police said. Nine boys and men, aged between 13 and 30, have had their bail extended to 16 November, police say. One survivor who struggled to access support says the service could help prevent further "psychological damage". Tom Westley hits an unbeaten 123 to help title hopefuls Essex rally against almost-safe Warwickshire at Edgbaston. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News