To continue the registration process, please verify your email address by copying and pasting the following code in the text box on the registration page: {0} If you have received this email in error, you do not need to take any action to cancel the registration process. The email account will not be verified and you will not receive any further emails. Thank you, The Clarivate Analytics Team © 2017 Clarivate Analytics | Terms Of Use | Privacy Policy  To access Web of Science personalization features, please sign in or register. As a registered user, you can:   To perform a structure or compound search, please sign in or register. Registering and signing in will allow you to Additional benefits of registration include   To save your settings for future sessions, please sign in or register.   To access your search history saved in the Web of Science, please sign in or register. Saving your search history in the Web of Science lets you:   To create or access your Citation Alerts, please sign in or register. Creating Citation Alerts lets you:   To create a Journal Alert, please sign in or register. Creating Journal Alerts lets you:   To create and access the EndNote Library, please sign in or register. Creating an EndNote Library lets you:   To access or register with ResearcherID.com, you must first sign in or register with the Web of Science. After signing in or registering, reselect the link to proceed to ResearcherID.com.   To create an InCites dataset from search results in Web of Science, you must be signed into InCites.  Save search history to a local drive Download your search history to a local drive. Close this window once the file has downloaded. Save Open from a Local Drive Use Browse to open a locally saved history file. We need to verify your email address. An email has been sent to: . If you do not receive an email within 5 minutes, please check your spam folder or click here to resend theverification email. Please copy and paste the code enclosed in the email in the box below: Customize your Web of Science experience Save Searches and create alerts Create Citation Alerts Save and Manage your references online with EndNote Access Web of Science from anywhere!