Interested in applying? Learn more about the application and review process from one of our Admissions representatives during a 40-minute information session. Freshman information sessions are followed by a student-led, 90-minute walking tour to learn all about the UMass campus. For transfers, the information session follows the tour. Check out the Visitors Center website to get more information on session times, registration, and important details for your visit. Schedule an Information Session or Campus Tour Prospective undergraduates and their families are invited to visit campus and learn about life at UMass Amherst on weekends throughout the fall. Admissions counselors and a student panel will discuss our academic programs, residential life, student activities, financial aid and the application process. Visitors can take guided tours and enjoy half-price meals in our award-winning dining areas. Register now! Some departments across campus offer prospective students and families opportunities to visit and learn more about their program. Schedule a visit with an academic department The Admissions Office will host a number of off-campus receptions for interested students and their parents each fall and spring. See if we will be in your area. Amherst was named the top college town in North America in 2009! The town really has it all, and it will be your home as a UMass Amherst student. Find out what the area has to offer.  UMass Amherst is located in Western Massachusetts in one of the safest and most beautiful areas of the United States! 90 miles (145KM) from Boston and 175 miles (282KM) from New York City.  Find our campus and the surrounding area on Google maps (????) Where to stay and where to eat during your visit. For directions to campus and more information about visiting campus, please go to the Robsham Memorial Center for Visitors website. The Visitors Center is open weekdays from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. To verify current hours, call (413) 545-0306.  Undergraduate Admissions Office Visit us at 243 Whitmore Admin Building, 181 Presidents Drive Amherst, MA 01003 Mail us at 37 Mather Drive, Amherst, MA 01003 mail@admissions.umass.edu • Ph: 413-545-0222 • F: 413-545-4312 Office Policies Freshman Counselor Directory Transfer Counselor Directory  Connect ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact