Jump to navigation Subsidiary accounts are additional accounts, associated with a primary NetID, that can be requested by faculty and staff and are used for various purposes including departmental or academic projects, cross-group collaborations, student employees, and service/application accounts for servers. When the subsidiary accounts are created they are classified into a subsidiary account category (Course Account, System Account, Department Account, etc.). Each Subsidiary Account comes with a separate email account, blog, and Web site space. Subsidiary Accounts cannot be used to access the campus network via wired Ethernet or wireless. There are several types of IT Subsidiary Accounts. Ensure that the account you are requesting falls under one of the following categories. Used for course-related work and materials. For each course they teach, instructors can request an IT Course Account in SPIRE. Course accounts provide a separate Blog, online storage (Box and Google Apps), email, and more. See Create & Manage Course IT Accounts. Used by departments for access to IT services. An additional account for use by Faculty and Staff to access IT services. Used to allow student employees access to work related email, file storage, and other IT services. Used for automated IT system processes. Assigned to authorized vendors for business related access to IT resources. Account placeholder for resources such as Exchange calendars for classrooms and conference rooms. Used by registered student organizations for maintaining websites, etc. To request a Subsidiary IT Account, contact the IT Help Center through an online help request, or call 413-545-9400 (option 1). The IT Help Center is located at A109 LGRC Lowrise, M-F, 8:30 a.m.- 5:00 p.m. Once your Subsidiary Account is activated, you will be assigned a new NetID. You will need to login to SPIRE with your personal IT Account NetID and password to assign your Subsidiary Account a new password. See the Manage a Subsidiary Account section below for instructions on how to access your IT Accounts page, which lists your current accounts. Note: Subsidiary Account usernames and passwords are different than your IT Account NetID and password. Use SPIRE to view a Subsidiary Account, change its password, or schedule a date to delete it. Note: Changing your password for your Subsidiary Account does not change your main IT Account password. If another UMass Amherst colleague or student is using a subsidiary IT account that you own, you can designate this individual as an official account user. Official users have the ability to change subsidiary account passwords. Note: Subsidiary IT Accounts require an annual password change in order to remain active. See more details here.   © University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact