Once your bot is launched, there are lots of ways to collect valuable insights and analytics on how it is being used and what people on Messenger think about it. With the Messaging Insights API (provided via the Pages Insights API), you can programatically retrieve the same information that appears in the Page Insights tab of your Facebook Page. Facebook Analytics is a powerful tool for developers on all of Facebook's platforms to understand their audience and optimize their apps. It now supports Messenger Bots! Using it, you can view detailed demographic info about your users. You can also log your own custom events. For a complete guide to getting started, see the Facebook Analytics Quickstart Guide for Bots for Messenger. You can also view your bot's Facebook page and check the Messages tab under Insights. This is a good spot to check your spam and block rates. Keep them low by focusing on a good user experience! You can export analytics data by navigating to App Analytics under Messenger. This is restricted to admins of the app. Messenger Bot Reviews will be removed on August 15, 2019. They allowed people to leave a star rating and review for a bot. Page owners will no longer be able to view these ratings for their app and Page in the Page Settings or in App Dashboard. Refer to Jun 10, 2019 Announcement. People can leave a 5-star review and provide freeform feedback on your bot from Manage > Leave Feedback. Ratings and reviews for all Messenger bots an app is associated with will be emailed to the app owner(s) daily. Ratings and reviews are also available in the developer console under Products > Messenger > Bot Ratings. Reviews and ratings for Messenger bots are also available at a page-level in the 'Messenger Reviews' tab of Page settings. This is a convenient way for Page owners who do not have access to the Facebook app associated with their bot to see their ratings and reviews. You may also consider integrating your existing analytics provider into your Messenger Bot. Most analytics providers allow you to create server side events, these can then be used to measure retention, engagement, errors and other metrics that are important to your experience.