We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes It’s our job to #GoThere & tell the most difficult stories. Join us! For more breaking news updates follow @CNNBRK & Download our app ?http://cnn.com/apps You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. A video of two toddlers running to give each other a big hug has gotten a lot of love. The boys, 26-month-old Maxwell and 27-month-old Finnegan, have known each other for more than a year. https://cnn.it/2UPOZ6n pic.twitter.com/2MuFYGORGD The fact that this is even celebrated is the problem. This should be NORMAL and shouldn't even be news. We are in a sad state of affairs. strongly agree 50 years later...pic.twitter.com/w30gtrAKYn Kids of different colors love each other until us parents tell them not to Me and my 432-month-old friend do that too. pic.twitter.com/H1RwKBi2gv How lovely the parents of these toddlers are because they want their children to accept other's based on fun stuff not race. Great parents. And yes, this cheers my heart to see this. Thanks for sharing. Can someone gif this plz They are both “2” If Trump was given this love as a kid, maybe things would be different. This Is Beautiful Racism Is Taught This Is Pure Love I love watching their videos , cute After Trump's out of the White house this will be become normal again. This is so beautiful. Thanks for sharing. Big love The best feel good story of the week sure do miss the feel good moments that is amazing so adorable #littlebuds "Its great to spread love & beauty in the world " I completely agree with you dad. very nice video in a real suitable time.  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.