Police numbers are currently 800 below what was suggested when the PSNI was formed in 2001. Police numbers are currently 800 below what was suggested when the PSNI was formed in 2001. John O'Dowd is challenging Michelle O'Neill for vice president at the Sinn Féin Ard Fheis. Troubles victims' campaigner Raymond McCord was one of three people to bring legal action. The listed building has planning permission to be converted into a 160-bed hotel. The area in Belfast City Cemetery, known as Plot Z1, contains the unmarked graves of 7,160 babies. The UK has not yet put forward any workable alternatives to the Brexit border backstop, says the EU. The theatre is undergoing major restoration and may not be able to pay all employees while closed. Police numbers are currently 800 below what was suggested when the PSNI was formed in 2001. John O'Dowd is challenging Michelle O'Neill for vice president at the Sinn Féin Ard Fheis. Troubles victims' campaigner Raymond McCord was one of three people to bring legal action. The listed building has planning permission to be converted into a 160-bed hotel. The area in Belfast City Cemetery, known as Plot Z1, contains the unmarked graves of 7,160 babies. The UK has not yet put forward any workable alternatives to the Brexit border backstop, says the EU. The theatre is undergoing major restoration and may not be able to pay all employees while closed. John O'Dowd is challenging Michelle O'Neill for vice president at the Sinn Féin Ard Fheis. Troubles victims' campaigner Raymond McCord was one of three people to bring legal action. The listed building has planning permission to be converted into a 160-bed hotel. Richard Morgan BBC NI reporter The airlines will no longer be offering certain routes at Belfast International and City airports. Stephen Walker BBC News NI Political Correspondent John O'Dowd is challenging Michelle O'Neill for vice president at the Sinn Féin Ard Fheis. The weather forecast in Northern Ireland. The area in Belfast City Cemetery, known as Plot Z1, contains the unmarked graves of 7,160 babies. John Campbell BBC News NI Economics & Business Editor The listed building has planning permission to be converted into a 160-bed hotel. The pilots' control panels started to melt and there was smoke during the accident in February. Julian Fowler South West Reporter, BBC News NI Charlotte Murray was reported missing by her family in 2013. Julian O'Neill BBC News NI Home Affairs Correspondent Police numbers are currently 800 below what was suggested when the PSNI was formed in 2001. Conor Macauley BBC NI Agriculture & Environment Correspondent Derek Williamson leads Brexit contingency planning for the Department of Agriculture Environment and Rural Affairs. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News