Robert Mugabe is now lying in state at a football stadium in Zimbabwe's capital Harare. Robert Mugabe is now lying in state at a football stadium in Zimbabwe's capital Harare. Police in Nigeria, Ghana and Kenya arrest people suspected of tricking victims into wiring money - and more stories. The latest crime figures show rises in both murder and sexual offences over the past year Almost 200 Nigerians leave South Africa and fly to Lagos after outbreaks of xenophobic violence. Thousands of Africans are crossing Panama's Darien Gap - one of the world's most dangerous jungles. The bird, which also injured two others, is thought to have been hungry following a severe drought. Robert Mugabe is now lying in state at a football stadium in Zimbabwe's capital Harare. Police in Nigeria, Ghana and Kenya arrest people suspected of tricking victims into wiring money - and more stories. The latest crime figures show rises in both murder and sexual offences over the past year Almost 200 Nigerians leave South Africa and fly to Lagos after outbreaks of xenophobic violence. Thousands of Africans are crossing Panama's Darien Gap - one of the world's most dangerous jungles. The bird, which also injured two others, is thought to have been hungry following a severe drought. Police in Nigeria, Ghana and Kenya arrest people suspected of tricking victims into wiring money - and more stories. The latest crime figures show rises in both murder and sexual offences over the past year We'll be back on Friday That's all from BBC Africa Live for today, we now leave you with an automated service until Friday morning. A reminder of today's wise words: Someone tolerant drinks the milk of the heifer." Click here to send in your African proverb. And we leave you with pictures from Harare's Rufaro stadium, where mourners gathered to see former President Robert Mugabe's body lie in state: Ishaq Khalid BBC Africa, Abuja A popular Nigerian musician has been charged with illegally releasing songs and setting up a studio in his house. Naziru Ahmad was arrested by police at his home in Kano city on Wednesday evening. He appeared in court on Thursday and was granted bail with a number of conditions. He must surrender his passport, submit three guarantors and deposit the equivalent of $1,400 (£1,100). Ahmad is the latest performer to be detained by the authorities in an apparent crackdown on artists who are seen as critical of the state administration. Critics say the arrest is politically motivated because of the singer's close ties with the Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, who has fallen out with the governor of the state. Ahmad is chief musician in the emir's court. Several other musicians have recently been jailed for allegedly defaming the governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, in their songs. The crackdown is causing concern in northern Nigeria's large entertainment industry which is primarily based in Kano, with artists saying freedom of speech is under threat. Patience Atuhaire BBC Africa, Kampala More than 220,000 refugee children are out of school in Uganda due to a funding shortfall, the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) says. It says it needs more than $120m (£97m) for refugee education programmes. It launched a funding appeal in May, but only received 30% of the required money. The agency’s country director told the BBC that not having access to education makes young people feel desperate. More than 300,000 refugee children are attending school in Uganda, where they learn alongside those from the host communities. Although the country has been praised globally for its friendliness to refugees, its refugee-hosting response has previously been marred by corruption. In total, Uganda hosts about 1.3 million refugees mostly from South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Burundi. Read more: Police in Nigeria, Ghana and Kenya have arrested dozens of people suspected of carrying out large-scale money-transfer scams. The scams involve tricking victims into wiring money to bank accounts controlled by fraudsters. More than 250 people were arrested in 10 countries. Police also conducted raids in the US, UK, Turkey, France, Italy, Japan and Malaysia. Of those arrested, 167 were from Nigeria. The FBI coordinated the raids over a period of several months. They targeted groups of people suspected of stealing millions of pounds from companies and individuals. Almost $3.7m (£3m) in cash was seized during the raids. Evidence gathered from the operation should also lead to another $118m being seized, the FBI said. Ibrahim Magu, who chairs Nigeria's Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, told the TodayNG news website that the action was part of a larger effort against groups of suspected tech-savvy criminals called Yahoo boys. Mr Magu said the raids had led to the seizure of "exotic cars [and] plots of land in choice areas in Lagos and a property in Abuja". The FBI has urged anyone handling money transfer requests that arrive by email to take extra time to verify the identity of the sender. Read more about the raids here. Aboubakar Famau BBC Africa, Dodoma Hundreds of widows are meeting in Tanzania’s capital, Dodoma, to demand more rights in traditional societies in East Africa. In some cultures, a widow is unable to inherit her late husband’s property. In others, she becomes the wife of her late husband’s brother. The gathering, organised by the non-governmental origination Amazing Grace, also includes widows from neighbouring countries like Kenya, Uganda and Malawi. “Some of the challenges widows face include intimidation and being stigmatised by the late husband's family,” Beatrice Mwinuka, who is running the symposium, told BBC Swahili. “Some relatives are determined to take property, which a widow has toiled to gather with her husband,” she said. “At times, the woman is left behind with small school-going children, but you will find that, these relatives do not care a bit. “There are times when the widow does not know her rights and because she is in the village, she doesn't know where to go and get help." In Tanzania, the main challenge facing widows is the issue of property as some families think widows will go on to marry someone else. But things are changing here, as it is acknowledged what a key role a woman plays in a marriage and how she contributes to a couple’s wealth. Families in Ethiopia's Somali region say they have been experiencing a spate of eagle attacks. At least one child has died and two others have been injured in the district of Gaashaamo. Muno Shuayb is the mother of one of the wounded children. She told the BBC's Somali service that she was in her room when she heard her son scream: We rushed outside the house. I saw it holding my son on the ground and biting him. He was crying ‘mother…mother!’. I ran to him and threw a stick at the bird." Mohamed Hassan, a senior police officer, says security has been bolstered in the area. They have also been a given shoot-to-kill order against the bird. There is an ongoing police operation. Police were deployed to the area and the surrounding jungle. We gave orders that it should be shot dead, but we are still searching for it." Shingai Nyoka BBC Africa, Harare Robert Mugabe's family has prevailed and Zimbabwe's former president will be buried in his rural home. This is a final snub to his former comrades. It is not unprecedented: other national heroes have declined to be buried at the Heroes' Acre national shrine in the capital, Harare, but not one of Robert Mugabe's stature. Speaking at her mother's funeral last year, Grace Mugabe expressed her desire to reconcile with President Emmerson Mnangagwa, the man who ultimately won out in the pair's battle to succeed Mr Mugabe as president. But this decision could strain relations and widen the rift. In Harare's Rufaro stadium, where preparations are under way for the arrival of his body, hundreds of mourners in the regalia of the governing Zanu-PF party have arrived. There is a jubilant mood. But most of the people I spoke to are Mugabe supporters. One woman supported the family's decision for a private burial. "The way they got rid of him was not right, it was cruel," she said. Another mourner said she believed the former president needed to be buried with his family rather than with his comrades. Milton Nkosi BBC Africa, Johannesburg Sexual offences and the murder rate have risen significantly in South Africa over the past year, according to new official crime figures. Murders recorded by the police are now at their highest level for a decade, and sexual offences including rape have risen by 4.6%. Police Minister Bheki Cele, who announced the statistics in parliament on Thursday, said the numbers were "not rosy”. There were 21,022 murders recorded for the 2018/2019 financial year, 686 more than last year. Mr Cele said that 60% of murders took place on the weekend after victims and perpetrators had consumed large amounts of alcohol. Child murders increased, but the number of women murdered went down by 5.4%. A recent spate of rapes and murders of women in the country have led to street protests, the #AmINext campaign on Twitter, and an online petition signed by more than 500,000 to demand the reinstatement of the death penalty. “We have recorded decreases in crimes of fear such as cash-in-transit robberies and car hijackings," Mr Cele said. "There are glimmers of improvements." For a more detailed breakdown of the statistics, read this analysis by the BBC's Reality Check team. More on crime in South Africa:  A Kenyan MP has demanded that a law be passed to help flight crews deal with passengers battling flatulence on board. Lilian Achieng Gogo, MP for Rangwe constituency in western Kenya, told parliament that farting passengers were increasingly becoming a security threat because of the discomfort caused to fellow travellers.  There is one irritant that it is often ignored, and this is the level of farting within the aircraft... If this is not managed well it can cause discomfort and insecurity on board." The MP was contributing to a motion about amendments to a law on offences committed on aircraft. Among her proposed reforms was one that would allow flight crews to dispense anti-flatulent drugs to passengers. We should have systems of the food offered on board and we should have basic medical systems that are able to reduce the level of gas that one can exude within the flight." Farting was such an irritant that it could lead to fights on board between travellers, Ms Gogo explained. Farting is terrible within the plane. We should have basic provision of medicines like Eno... yes this should be done and it should be a practice that is embedded in law." The MP also wanted all local and international flights to have paramedics on board, as well as the amount of alcohol served to passengers checked. The drinking that happens in flights is terrible, it's worse than what happens here on the ground. We should have a system where we are able to manage and control... also people's medical history should be obtained before they are served certain alcoholic drinks for their own security." Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News