We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes It’s our job to #GoThere & tell the most difficult stories. Join us! For more breaking news updates follow @CNNBRK & Download our app ?http://cnn.com/apps You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. Justice Neil Gorsuch explains how Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg welcomed him to the Supreme Court https://cnn.it/31cZweb pic.twitter.com/ySanH0T91l MERRICK GARLAND I thought maybe it would have been with a keg stand or shotgunning a beer. Except that was Kavanaugh not Gorsuch. I see what you did there! Merrick Garland You can blame Harry Reid for that I wonder if he takes bowel movements like us lowlife peasants do. Thanks corporate media for bringing us messaging from our ruling class. Delightful story from your ivory tower oh wise one. May I get 2 loaves of bread this week because I thought your story was so good & I laughed GORSUCK STOLE GARLANDS SEAT. IF HE HAD ANY INTEGRITY HE WOULD HAVE DECLINED. Integrity in the @GOP? Ha, thanks. I needed a good laugh. (and yes, Gorsuch is GOP. There's not a bipartisan bone in his body) Did they get a Keg for Kavanaugh? Do tell Did he explain how all his credit, mortgage etc was paid off? I for one would like to know. Wedgie? By mumbling something then drooling on herself. She treated him better than he deserved to be treated.pic.twitter.com/cqyib38Hyi  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.