education@umass.edu 813 North Pleasant St. Amherst MA 01003  Directions  The first banquet for the Harold Grinspoon Foundation's Pioneer Valley Excellence in Teaching Awards was held on May 1 to recognize Hampden County West award winners. Among the winners was Katerina Sherrick, a History Teacher License graduate from the Bridges to the Future pathway. Katerina was joined by her mentor, Irene LaRoche, College of Education alum and Amherst Regional Middle School teacher. Kudos, Katerina! Integrating cutting-edge educational methodologies with science content There’s never been a more pressing demand for qualified science teachers, yet there are few university programs that offer a cohesive curriculum preparing teachers to create inquiry-based science classrooms. Science Education Online, UMass Amherst’s field-based master’s/education specialist degree program, integrates cutting-edge educational methodologies with science content in subject areas ranging from astronomy to oceanography. In this fully-online, comprehensive program, marked by its interdisciplinary, hands-on approach, science teachers solidify their knowledge and build effective teaching strategies they can immediately apply in the classroom. Science education online is a collaboration among the UMass Amherst College of Education, College of Natural Sciences, and School of Public Health and Health Sciences, as well as UMass Lowell. It is intended for elementary and middle school classroom teachers who wish to increase their science content knowledge and teaching skills. The program prepares Massachusetts teachers for professional licensure in elementary education or middle school general science. This program is not a teacher preparation program and is not appropriate for those seeking initial teacher licensure in their state. Teachers from other states must consult their own state licensing regulations. Science Education Online offers rolling admission, admitting students year round. Our students generally take a maximum of two online courses per semester; courses are offered in fall, spring and summer semesters, and the schedule is quite flexible. Depending upon scheduling and class choices, it is possible to finish the program in less than two years. Students in Science Education Online either earn a master of education (M.Ed.) degree or an education specialist degree (EdS). The Ed.S. option provides cohesive, specialized training for teachers who already hold a master’s, without the commitment and formal examination of a doctoral program. Email us for more information Last day to Drop with "W" READ MORE  READ MORE  READ MORE  813 North Pleasant St. Amherst MA 01003 Be A Teacher Programs Apply Values in Practice Research Centers About the College Directory of Offices People A-Z Giving & Support News & Events Accessibility ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact