UMass Amherst has a new view on applied research and industry engagement. We have reinvented the way we do business to ensure that discoveries translate into innovation. Through the UMass Innovation Institute (UMII), the University of Massachusetts Amherst is reinventing its approach to applied research and engagement with industry. Our aim is simple: to ensure that UMass Amherst discoveries and technologies move forward into society. UMII is an important new channel at Massachusetts’ flagship public research university for industry-sponsored basic and applied research, collaborative partnerships, and technology translation to industry. UMII’s mission is to increase opportunities for research support and to efficiently and effectively move research outcomes from campus labs into society. We do this through an institutional commitment to responsiveness, agility, flexibility and timeliness in dealing with sponsors, collaborators, faculty and external stakeholders. UMII enables the University of Massachusetts Amherst to expand the impact of its research in new directions, with new partners, and through creative approaches to collaboration. Our vision is for UMII to impact regional and national economic growth by ensuring that knowledge and technology developed at UMass are rapidly and broadly disseminated to advance the nation’s social and economic interests. A new state voucher program gives small and medium-sized businesses access to the university’s leading-edge research facilities at reduced rates. Funds are limited. Applications will be accepted until funds are exhausted. Apply Now UMass Innovation Institute 101 University Drive Suite C-6 Amherst, MA 01002 umii@umass.edu (413) 577-8644 Contact Form Kathryn Ellis Director, UMass Innovation Institute kathrynellis@umass.edu (413) 577-1518 James Capistran Former Executive Director (Retired), UMass Innovation Institute capistran@umass.edu Nancy Stewart Assistant Director, UMass Innovation Institute stewart@research.umass.edu (413) 545-5894 Michelle Wonsey Office Manager mwonsey@umass.edu (413) 577-8644 362 Whitmore Building University of Massachusetts Amherst Amherst, MA 01003-9313 Tel: (413) 545-5270 Contact us Our Offices ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact