Code of Student Conduct | Academic Honesty Policy | FERPA | Alcohol and Drug Policies | Land Use Policy These policies apply to UMass Amherst students: All students are responsible for complying with the rules, regulations, policies, and procedures contained in the Code of Student Conduct, as well as those in other official university publications, and announcements which may be issued from time to time. The Academic Honesty Policy applies to all students and instructors and other instructional staff participating in academic classes, programs, and research projects offered at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, i.e., all graduate, undergraduate, Stockbridge, and Continuing and Professional Education programs including all online/distance learning courses. FERPA allows present or former students at educational institutions access to educational records kept on them, as well as basic protections of privacy of their records. Applicants seeking admission to the university are not covered by FERPA. The law applies to educational records, which are defined as those records that are directly related to a student and maintained by an educational agency or institution. The university's Alcohol and other Drug Policies conform to state and federal laws, and enhance the health, safety, property and educational interests of our community. Students are responsible for obtaining and adhering to these policies. Although Massachusetts voters approved MA Ballot Measure 4, permitting the possession and recreational use of marijuana, federal laws prohibit the use, possession and/or cultivation of marijuana at educational institutions. The use, possession, or cultivation of marijuana is therefore not allowed in any university housing or on any other university property. Students organizing programs, activities, and events on university property must adhere to the Land Use Policy. Students hosting events on university property should review and follow the guidelines for event planning/management as outlined in Student Activities & Involvement's Lead Times for Event Procedures.  Academic Regulations Alcoholic Beverage Policy Hazing Policy Health Withdrawals Picketing Code Land Use Policy Marijuana Policy RSO Policies and Procedures SGA Constitution Undergraduate Residency Withdrawal  ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact