The NCSBN Annual Report is a formal summary of the organization's performance and activities during the previous year. The annual report aims to place the organization in context within its business environment, and highlights NCSBN's strategic plan and future goals. It also: Explore the inaugural Year in Review microsite that documents all of NCSBN’s accomplishments and initiatives in the past year. 2019 | Website This annual report functions as a formal summary of NCSBN’s performance and activities during fiscal year 2018. NCSBN divides its Annual Report into two parts. The first part includes financial and business information including operating statements and listings of the Board of Directors, committees and staff that follows NCSBN’s fiscal year spanning Oct. 1, 2017 to Sept. 30, 2018. This document is posted here. 2018 | Publication This annual report functions as a formal summary of NCSBN’s performance and activities during fiscal year 2017. NCSBN divides its Annual Report into two parts. The first part includes financial and business information including operating statements and listings of the Board of Directors, committees and staff that follows NCSBN’s fiscal year spanning Oct. 1, 2016 to Sept. 30, 2017. This document is posted here. 2018 | Publication NCSBN’s annual yearbook features events, activities and NCLEX Examination statistics for the entire calendar year 2017. This year we have an interactive version with the added feature of videos about NCSBN and comments from NCSBN awardees that you can access directly from the document. The interactive yearbook also features easily accessible links to other videos, slideshows and online resource materials as well as additional information about the subjects covered in the publication. We hope you will enjoy this evolving publication that documents all of NCSBN’s accomplishments and initiatives in the past year! 2018 | Publication 2016 | Publication NCSBN’s annual Year In Review is an interactive companion to NCSBN's 2016 Annual Report, featuring events, activities and NCLEX Examination statistics for the entire calendar year 2016. Inside this yearbook are easily accessible links to videos, slideshows and other online resource documents as well as additional information about the subjects covered in the publication. 2017 | Publication This annual report functions as a formal summary of NCSBN’s performance and activities during fiscal year 2015. It also provides financial information, NCLEX pass rates, member achievements, a timeline of NCSBN activities and NCSBN facts. 2015 | Publication This annual report functions as a formal summary of NCSBN’s performance and activities during fiscal year 2014. It also provides financial information, NCLEX pass rates, member achievements, a timeline of NCSBN activities and NCSBN facts. 2014 | Publication This annual report functions as a formal summary of NCSBN’s performance and activities during fiscal year 2013. It also provides financial information, NCLEX pass rates, member achievements, a timeline of NCSBN activities and NCSBN facts. 2013 | Publication This annual report functions as a formal summary of NCSBN’s performance and activities during fiscal year 2012. It also provides financial information, NCLEX pass rates, member achievements, a timeline of NCSBN activities and NCSBN facts. 2012 | Publication This annual report functions as a formal summary of NCSBN’s performance and activities during fiscal year 2011. It also provides financial information, NCLEX pass rates, member achievements, a timeline of NCSBN activities and NCSBN facts. 2011 | Publication This annual report functions as a formal summary of NCSBN’s performance and activities during fiscal year 2010. It also provides financial information, NCLEX pass rates, member achievements and NCSBN facts. 2010 | Publication This annual report functions as a formal summary of NCSBN’s performance and activities during fiscal year 2009. It also provides financial information, NCLEX pass rates, member achievements and NCSBN facts. 2009 | Publication This annual report functions as a formal summary of NCSBN’s performance and activities during fiscal year 2008. It also provides financial information, NCLEX pass rates, member achievements and NCSBN facts. 2008 | Publication This annual report functions as a formal summary of NCSBN’s performance and activities during fiscal year 2007. It also provides financial information, NCLEX pass rates, member achievements, a timeline of NCSBN activities and NCSBN facts. 2007 | Publication This annual report functions as a formal summary of NCSBN’s performance and activities during fiscal year 2006. It also provides financial information, NCLEX pass rates, member achievements, a timeline of NCSBN activities and NCSBN facts. 2006 | Publication This annual report functions as a formal summary of NCSBN’s performance and activities during fiscal year 2005. It also provides financial information, NCLEX pass rates, member achievements, a timeline of NCSBN activities and NCSBN facts. 2005 | Publication ©2019 National Council of State Boards of Nursing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.