We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes It’s our job to #GoThere & tell the most difficult stories. Join us! For more breaking news updates follow @CNNBRK & Download our app ?http://cnn.com/apps You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. These little robots drive autonomously around Purdue University, delivering food and drinks that students and staff can order on a smartphone app https://cnn.it/34CCpvS pic.twitter.com/bBY6pJ2RoD @csplittorff is this why Naomi picked putdue?!?! Hey, that's our thing! #GMU Does it have a security feature? Because if not, free lunch on wheels i guess. Wow! Do they go indoors, where most people actually are? Berkeley, CApic.twitter.com/WbddePM8xB Don’t show this to @AndrewYang #yanggang Great innovation. Science could do everything to help us. However, we should think twice to make it useful but not harmful for human being while conducting such invention. it may work in restricted grounds but in the real world its a non starter. Even delivery vans are being hijacked and robbed so good luck with robots delivering parcels round the streets of chicago or new york. Can they use elevators or stairs? @Cameeelliaaa The future is here I mean, people can also deliver things. Sometimes people can do jobs.  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.