We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Pres calls vaping very dangerous, citing deaths even among children. Mentions the First Lady's concern about their son Barron and vaping. Says FDA will be looking at drafting very strong rules and regulations for e-cigs. Says it should have been looked at years earlier.pic.twitter.com/xhl2pRd583 Trump on Melania: “she’s got a son...that is a beautiful young man.”pic.twitter.com/IiriBDNtVn Trump on his son, as the White House transcript puts it: "And that's how the First Lady got involved. I mean, she's got a son -- together -- that is a beautiful, young man, and she feels very, very strongly about it. She's seen it." Trump indicates that his drive against vaping came at the behest of Melania. He then describes his son Barron in a very odd way. "That's how the First Lady involved. She's got a son -- together -- that's a beautiful young man, & she feels very very strongly about it."pic.twitter.com/s5wNzUCSmj Jay Willis Retweeted MSNBC I will be spending the rest of the day thinking about this sentence: “She’s got a son—together—that’s a beautiful young man, and she feels very, very strongly about it”https://twitter.com/msnbc/status/1171842185114849281 … Jay Willis added, Emily C. Singer Retweeted Kathryn Watson Can someone explain to me this collection of words? Does he suggest he’s not Barron’s dad? Does he call Barron “it”?https://twitter.com/kathrynw5/status/1171876541992751109 … Emily C. Singer added, Citing first lady Melania Trump's concern for Barron, Pres. Trump says his administration wants to ban all non-tobacco flavored e-cigarettes after the products have been linked to a number of recent lung-related diseases and deaths https://cbsn.ws/2O32Sgp pic.twitter.com/U7uEyJLEbG “It’s a new problem in the country.” President Trump says his administration and the FDA are considering banning “non-tobacco flavored vaping products” from the US market.https://twitter.com/i/events/1171828459636576257 … You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.