Jump to navigation Students choose Isenberg’s online option to complete an undergraduate degree because they want to advance in their professions or make a career change. Isenberg offers freedom without compromise—a flexible learning environment that delivers a superior AACSB-accredited education. At Isenberg, we are committed to ensuring our online students graduate with the competitive business skills essential for success – blending innovative technology with coursework that simulates real-world business experiences. Our undergraduate curriculum instills core business knowledge, as well as perspectives that embrace the global economy, sustainable and socially responsible decision-making, and interdisciplinary perspectives in science, technology, mathematics, humanities and entrepreneurship. To receive an undergraduate degree, students at UMass Amherst must complete a total of 120 credits of coursework designed to meet general education and major-specific curriculum requirements. Isenberg School of Management offers 2 undergraduate degrees. In addition to the courses required for their major field of study, all Isenberg students must take a set of core business courses in topics like accounting, corporate finance, marketing fundamentals, business information systems, and management communications. Specific course requirements are dependent on the degree type of the student's major field of study. For more information about undergraduate degree requirements select the major of your choice. We offer personalized advice on any aspect of the Isenberg Undergraduate online program, from applying to a program to choosing the right classes. Your success is our top priority, and we welcome the opportunity to talk with you. We are available 9:00 am – 4:30 pm EST Monday through Friday by phone, email, or schedule a convenient time to talk more about the program. Cheryl Hachey, Program Information Specialist 413.577.2760 ugradonline@isenberg.umass.edu Make an appointment The Isenberg School of Management does not offer a Second Bachelor Degree program on campus or... The Isenberg School of Management does not offer a Second Bachelor Degree program on campus or online. With the completion of a bachelor degree already (business or non-business) you are not eligible to apply to our bachelor programs.   We do however offer other outstanding programs you may be interested in.   We have a variety of Certificates at the Undergraduate and Graduate level and Master Programs.   For information on our Online MSA Program please contact the MSA Office 413-545-5662, msa@isenberg.umass.edu.   For information on our Online MBA Program please contact the MBA Office 413-545-5608, mba@isenberg.umass.edu.   You cannot double major in two Isenberg BBA degrees (accounting, operations and information... You cannot double major in two Isenberg BBA degrees (accounting, operations and information management, marketing, management or finance). You can double major with a BBA degree and our BS in Hospitality and Tourism degree. Isenberg does not offer a minor. Depending on your major you might also be eligible for one of our Certificates (no more than two required major classes can overlap with certificate course requirements): Hospitality Majors- are not eligible for the General Business Studies or Meeting and Event Management certificates. Management Majors- are not eligible for the General Business Studies or Sustainable Business Practice certificates. Accounting, Finance, Marketing and OIM Majors- are not eligible for the General Business Studies certificate. There are also certificates available online in Criminal Justice, Journalism or Sustainable Food and Farming. Other minors that can be obtained from the University online are; Sociology minor, Psychology minor, Political Science minor or IT minor. Yes! Our Advising Center offers a preliminary review of your transcript(s) before you apply. Yes! Our Advising Center offers a preliminary review of your transcript(s) before you apply. We can evaluate your unofficial transcripts to tell you which courses will most likely transfer, and what requirements you still need to fulfill to help you decide if Isenberg is the right fit for you. The preliminary transcript review does not guarantee admission, but is a good indication of your standing. For more information on requesting a preliminary review please see Learn more about transferring courses.   Yes! Yes! The University uses two Online Learning Management Systems (LMS) Blackboard Learn (BBL) and Moodle. Moodle courses are open to view a day before the semester starts and Blackboard course are available a week prior to registered students. This is a great opportunity every semester and especially your first semester to introduce yourself and start to learn the navigation before having to learn the course content.   Students may repeat a course that they received a C- or lower in. Students may repeat a course that they received a C- or lower in. The new grade will be the one factored into your UMass GPA, however all grades will be visible on the transcript. The course must be repeated at UMass Amherst. A course may be repeated once without permission and a second time only with permission of the academic dean. No student may take a course more than three times. On-campus students have priority in on-campus classes. On-campus students have priority in on-campus classes. Online students can take on-campus classes on occasion on a space available basis. There is a different tuition rate and additional fees. Your student status will determine how you can register for an online course, please see... Your student status will determine how you can register for an online course, please see How to Enroll for instructions.    New students will receive emails to your home email account with your NetID, temporary password... New students will receive emails to your home email account with your NetID, temporary password and SPIRE ID. Activate your UMass email account as soon as you receive the information. All official UMass communications will be sent to this account. Returning students will have the same NetID and password previously used. Access to classes in Blackboard Learn is available 1 week before the class begins. Access to classes in Moodle classes is available 24 hours before the class begins. To log into your class, go to your Class Schedule on SPIRE; click on computer-screen icon. Log into your class by using your Net ID and Password (same credentials used to log into SPIRE). Please see the Drop... Please see the Drop and Withdrawal Information. To enroll in a summer or winter class, you must activate your... To enroll in a summer or winter class, you must activate your CPE Enrollment Appointment in Spire. 1. Login to Spire 2. Activate your Enrollment Appointment: • Main Menu > Enrollment > Summer/WTR/Non-deg Enrol Appt • Choose your semester • Scroll down to the bottom of the page • Click "REQUEST CPE ENROLLMENT APPOINTMENT" You are now ready to add a classes. You need to activate your Student... You need to activate your Student IT Account to get access to SPIRE, UMass Email, and Online library resources.   You can see your cumulative GPA on your unofficial transcript in... You can see your cumulative GPA on your unofficial transcript in SPIRE.   Isenberg Courses: Isenberg Courses: All students can use the Browse Courses tool to find and sign up for Isenberg Classes Other Courses: Prospective Students If you are not a Current Student (not yet accepted to an Isenberg program) and want to sign up for a non-Isenberg class, you can search and enroll in classes at CPE. You are not eligible to register through SPIRE. Other Courses: Current Students 1. Login to SPIRE (the University online catalog and course search tool) 2. Click on Main Menu > Course Guides > Search for Classes 3. Follow directions for your session below Gen Ed classes Spring & Fall session: Gen Ed classes Summer and Winter session: The University uses two Online Learning Management Systems (LMS)... The University uses two Online Learning Management Systems (LMS) Blackboard Learn (BBL) and Moodle for online courses. Moodle courses are open to view a day before the semester starts and Blackboard course are available a week prior to registered students. You can review the tutorials prior to starting. Which semesters you attend and how many courses you take depend on your other obligations,... Which semesters you attend and how many courses you take depend on your other obligations, degree requirements and your goals for completion. How long it takes to finish depends on how many courses you take during which semesters, you may take 1 to 5 courses most semesters. Courses are offered spring, summer, winter and fall. Please bookmark important dates for details on the semester start and end dates, add/drop and withdrawal dates and refund dates. You can log on to your classes at your convenience but will have deadlines to meet and time restrictions to work within. You need a total of 120 credits to earn your degree. You need a total of 120 credits to earn your degree. You may transfer a maximum of 75 credits, and you must earn at least 45 of your total credits through classes at UMass Amherst, and meet all degree requirements.   You should expect to put in at least ten hours of course work per week for a three-credit course... You should expect to put in at least ten hours of course work per week for a three-credit course in the fall or spring (13 week semesters). For a three-credit course in the summer (6-week sessions) you can expect at least 20 hours of course work per week. The optional wintersession (3 ½ week session) requires at least 40 hours of course work per week.   How many credits you need to reach 120 and satisfy all program requirements will determine your... How many credits you need to reach 120 and satisfy all program requirements will determine your overall cost. You need a minimum of 27 transferable credits to apply and you may transfer up to 75. Finding Gen Ed classes can be tricky, so here is a tip to simplify the process: Finding Gen Ed classes can be tricky, so here is a tip to simplify the process: 1. Go to SPIRE 2. In the right-hand column, click Search Classes/Catalog 3. Near the bottom of the Class Search Criteria section, use the dropdown box Gen Ed Category to refine your search 4. At the bottom, use the dropdown box Mode of Instruction to choose (Online) All UMass Amherst Graduates are eligible for Latin honors designations on diplomas and... All UMass Amherst Graduates are eligible for Latin honors designations on diplomas and transcripts if his/her complete academic record shows at least 54 calculable credits at the University of Massachusetts Amherst and meets one or more of the following criteria: 1. If a student’s GPA places him/her among the top 5% of the graduating class of his/her school or college, then he/she will receive the degree summa cum laude. 2. If a student’s GPA places him/her among the top 10% of the graduating class of his/her school or college, but not among the top 5%, then he/she will receive the degree magna cum laude. 3. If a student’s GPA places him/her among the top 25% of the graduating class of his/her school or college, but not among the top 10%, then he/she will receive the degree cum laude.    Accounting Finance Hospitality & Tourism Management Management Marketing Operations & Information Management  Mark Kushinsky Undergraduate Online Finance “The [Isenberg Online] program is wonderful, I can’t say enough good things about it. The professors care, are responsive and are very knowledgeable. It’s very conducive to my preferred style of learning.” Read more about Mark You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.