We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes A Ghanaian rapper just said “fried rice for me, banku for them” in his song. ‘Them’ referring to his haters, etc. Let’s just analyse this for a while! Our stagnancy is embedded in so many things chale. Happy birthday @SaddickAdamspic.twitter.com/RYThzkCagn #WelcomeToGhana where if you buy coke GHC 1.00 sef your friends will shout “Herh Chairman you Dey chill oo” Hot girl summer Shot by Opeimu pic.twitter.com/gJLObHH7vy MAAAAN THIS NOSTALGIC COMEDY SCIENCE THING WAS THE PLUG BACK THEN HERH pic.twitter.com/fkuUgMLpWZ Tracklist for“ Fine$$e or be Fine$$ed” Preorder on the 13th of September pic.twitter.com/2Vs33hP3gc God doesn't Only save you from demons and principalities, He also saves you from yourself and the wrong people. Messi is yet to kick a ball this season but he is trending because another player played well. Levels. Nungua Rick Ross ?? Retweeted Kwakyewaa ? ? You are going to be that Goat we will be killing this Christmashttps://twitter.com/kwakyewaaaaa/status/1171197417439580160 … Nungua Rick Ross ?? added, If you want to soar higher in Christ, give up what is weighing you down. You never know what someone is going through at a point in time. You don’t just treat them like shit! For all you know they are going through some hard time. They lost someone, divorced or something crazy. Instead of being mean, engage them! Quinti ?? Retweeted BhimnationCommando ?? ? FRIDAYYYY @stonebwoyb 1GAD!https://twitter.com/livingstonegh11/status/1171811550417641473 … Quinti ?? added, This England team is very, very good. I’ll be richer than I’m now in a few years. God Just Told Me. You are never alone, God is with you always. He doesn't walk out on you like people do! WEATHER WARNING pic.twitter.com/sMje7B6ENB A man can be in UK and not be OK, he can be in US and still be USELESS Therefore, all good things come from ABOVE not Abroad Join us at the shack this and every Wednesday nite 4 the *MAN vrs FOOD* challenge ft *The Big Shack Burger* drop 150ghc, cant finish the meal within 5 minutes say bye to 150ghs, defy the odds and you get your money back as well as a filled tummy. #ManVrsFoodChallenge #OTshackpic.twitter.com/enUJavl5zM Personally excited about this new revolution I can't wait for the 13 /09/19 #MoveWithSwiftWheelsGHpic.twitter.com/4RKDHs81td Awwww Mike why are you making local woman cry na? That was a beautiful shoutout #BBNaijapic.twitter.com/0IU5692HE5 No results. Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.  You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.