Jump to navigation Students choose Isenberg’s online option to complete an undergraduate degree because they want to advance in their professions or make a career change. Isenberg offers freedom without compromise—a flexible learning environment that delivers a superior AACSB-accredited education. Need assistance with this form? Need assistance with this form? Someone will be in touch with you within 48 hours. Our Online Resource center is a virtual meeting space where students have the chance to meet each other and the department chairs, share course recommendations, engage with the resources that a research university offers, and gain study skills. Earning a degree opens up a world of possibilities. Isenberg helps people get back on track to finish their degree and start the career of their dreams. Our Transitions course is designed to help acclimate students to campus, their majors and professional and career skills, ultimately creating a community of learners. WE’RE FLEXIBLE. You can study online anytime, from anywhere in the world, making it ideal for students who have busy lives and fluctuating schedules. WE ENCOURAGE. We’ll help you transition back into academia, we’ll guide you through the application process, and we’ll advise you on the best courses to meet your goals. WE’RE EXPERTS. Our faculty members are experts in their fields, who are dedicated to teaching you what they know. WE CONNECT. We’ll introduce you to a diverse group of peers and professionals. You’ll tap into our global alumni network to expand your connections. I have enjoyed learning more about the huge umbrella of Hospitality and Tourism, beyond my small world of running special events. I also enjoyed [the] discussions we’ve shared. For me, it was the perfect way to get my feet wet both with the subject matter and getting into the routine of being back in school. I would even mention the topics we were writing about to my co-workers, who often chimed in or ask detailed questions about some of the subjects. I will have fond memories of my first semester at UMass Amherst. - Christine Bosco, Current Student Graduating seniors and their families are encouraged to attend the University Commencement ceremony, the Isenberg School Senior Celebration, and the Commonwealth Honors College Celebration of Excellence (if appropriate). All eligible students can participate in graduation ceremonies. Degrees will be conferred at Commencement while seniors will receive a commemorative UMass Amherst medal at the Isenberg Senior Celebration. Many of our online students have made only one trip to campus -- to graduate!   The Undergraduate Commencement Ceremonies are held in Mid May.  The Isenberg School of Management has a seperate celebration from the larger UMass Amherst commencement. We invite you to attend one or both events! Learn more Online instruction allows a student from any place in the world to select a course and choose the learning environment, and gives the independent learner the ability to manage their studies and their personal lives. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.