The NCLEX-RN (National Council Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses) is a standardized examination designed to test knowledge, skills, and abilities deemed essential for entry-level nursing practice. Graduates in the undergraduate Nursing Major and Accelerated BS in Nursing options must pass this exam in order to practice as registered nurses. The NCLEX-RN exam is administered by the National Council of State Boards of Nursing. Review the NCLEX Candidate Bulletin (see "Downloads" section below) and familiarize yourself with the format of the NCLEX test plan. Preparation for this exam is incorporated throughout undergraduate coursework. During the last semester of study, students should begin to intensively prepare for the NCLEX. Students in the College of Nursing are required to purchase a NCLEX test preparation package. The current vendor is ATI. 3. Wait to schedule the test until you receive the following from Pearson VUE: Acknowledgement of Receipt of Registration and Authorization to Test (ATT) . 4. For more details, see the Candidate Bulletin. The National Council of State Boards of Nursing also offers helpful information about NCLEX. 5. To order an official transcript, visit the UMass Amherst Registrar. 6. Applying for Licensure: If you plan to apply for licensure in Massachusetts, please have your official transcript sent to the following addresses after the Registrar has added your degree to the transcript following Commencement.: When will I see the test results? In Massachusetts, Professional Credential Service (PCS) reviews NCLEX applicant score results approximately 3-5 business days after the examination. Successful applicants who meet all requirements will receive a License Letter. The Massachusetts Board of Nursing posts license numbers on their website within 24 hours of review of results and final approval. Official licenses will arrive in the mail within 21 business days. Unsuccessful applicants will receive a diagnostic report and re-exam procedures. Students who take the exam in another state can visit the website for the state board of nursing/regulatory body for information about the timing and communication of test results.     The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master’s degree program in nursing and Doctor of Nursing Practice degree program at the University of Massachusetts Amherst College of Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The baccalaureate degree program is fully approved by the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Nursing. The University of Massachusetts Amherst is accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE; formerly the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges).     