The University of Massachusetts Amherst is committed to fostering a culture of diversity and inclusion, where everyone is treated with dignity and respect. We embrace disability as a natural part of diversity and seek to build capacity to appreciate and value individual differences, including differences in ability, to create inclusive community. We are fully committed to to providing full and equal access to information and services for all current and potential members of our community. For more information on our accessibility practices, and where you can go for assistance and support, please review the resources below. Accessible Workplace The University of Massachusetts Amherst is committed to being a workplace of choice for individuals of all ability levels. The Accessible Workplace unit, within the Office of Human Resources, is responsible for administering reasonable workplace accommodations for faculty and staff, including graduate and undergraduate workers. Disability Services The University of Massachusetts Amherst is committed to being a destination of choice for individuals of all ability levels. Disability Services provides direct services to students for all types of disability, information and referral on issues of accessibility, as well as training and staff development to the University community. Instructional Innovation There’s a lot you can do to make your course materials, websites, and media more accessible to people with different abilities, including vision, hearing, learning abilities, cognitive needs, mobility, speech, and combinations of these. Instructional Innovation regularly offers workshops on a variety of accessibility topics.a IT Accessibility Resources The University of Massachusetts Amherst Information Technologies is committed to providing information and resources that support our institutional goals of accessibility. Please visit this webpage to learn about resources and support in the areas of websites and web-based software, multimedia, electronic documents, electronic instructional materials, classroom delivery techniques and considerations, and more. Web Accessibility In order to meet its values of diversity and inclusiveness, UMass Amherst is committed to making its website accessible to all. To learn about our institutional commitment to web accessibility and to ensure that your UMass webpage is accessible, please use the information and resources provided. ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact