We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes It’s our job to #GoThere & tell the most difficult stories. Join us! For more breaking news updates follow @CNNBRK & Download our app ?http://cnn.com/apps You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. A Texas mother sentenced to five years in prison for voting illegally in the 2016 election appealed her conviction, saying she did not know her status as a felon on release made her ineligible to cast a ballothttps://cnn.it/2URr2vx Yep... pretty serious about voting rules these days. An illegal that votes has no chance of ever coming back... post wall that is. Looks next to impossible.pic.twitter.com/GxqlZiaIut This sounds pretty hoke.... Not her fault really...IS the fault of the registration system. If controlled by blockchain...would never happen. The fact it's a 5 year sentence is insanity. You can have a remote logic to saying she should know but that's basically just going "oh yeah you can't vote" then she goes home Such an extreme punishment for an accidental crime. Seems like a trap for felons so they stayed locked up. pic.twitter.com/QgyzcaTL5l I didn’t know the speed limit was 25 officer.... This would not be justice for her to be sentenced. Use some common sense is deterance. Ask she do some community service to help others know & understand the Inequity of Voter Rights. That is a better way to improve our Judicial process. Even so. Five years is excessive. https://zee.gl/LWAZBW8W Not a rapper, not trying to sell anything but if your interested in learning about pre-hispanic Mexico, take a look at my insta and my blog (link in bio) Have a great day Did I miss the part that she was already on probation for tax fraud? At least she was an American! This is a non-issue and a gross misuse of the judicial system. #BLM Which is why someone should have stopped her before she actually got that far. Aren't there supposed to be people at these stations who check the people who show up are actually able cast their ballot? Or can anyone just walk in and do it?  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.