The objective of the procurement activities within the WMO is to achieve best value for money for the acquisition of goods and services in a manner that supports fairness, integrity and transparency, and is directed towards maximum economy and effectiveness within, and in accordance with, the objectives of the Organization. Best value for money is defined – with respect to the goods or services sought – as the most advantageous balance between: As part of this process, the following principles are followed: WMO, in accordance with the policy of United Nations agencies participating in the United Nations Global Marketplace (UNGM, link below) , strictly enforces a zero tolerance approach to unethical, unprofessional or fraudulent actions by Vendors. WMO promotes procurement from developing countries and countries with economies in transition, provided that this effort remains compatible with the objective of achieving best value for money. Fairness and transparency are fundamental principles for WMO procurement activities. Bidders that believe they were not treated fairly in connection with a WMO procurement action may submit a Letter of Protest. In addition, WMO has a strict “No-gifts, no-hospitality” policy which is applicable to all Vendors. WMO personnel involved in the procurement process may not accept gifts or hospitality from current or potential Vendors. To do business with the WMO, a Vendor must first be registered using the United Nations Global Marketplace (UNGM), Vendor registration portal. Details of the Vendor registration process can be found on the Vendor Registration page. Here you can find detailed instruction on how to register in the UNGM portal. The WMO posts all tenders through the United Nations Global Marketplace (UNGM) and encourages potential vendors to register at the basic level through the UNGM. Facility Mangement ISS Facility Services (FM contract) Topnet (cleaning) 06-Feb-2018 01-Feb-2018 For a full list of our Tenders, please visit the UNGM portal. As an international organization, the WMO purchases a vast range of products and services from suppliers around the world. In 2016, 70% of WMO procurement activities were carried out in the following categories: In addition, the WMO also procures corporate services, which include, but are not limited to: Please visit the UNGM portal for the Annual Statistical report on United Nations Procurement. It is mandatory that all suppliers who wish to do business with WMO should accept and abide by the WMO General conditions of contract for provision of Goods and Services. Protest Procedures  Registration as a vendor with the WMO and many other organizations of the UN system is done through the United Nations Global Marketplace (UNGM). Visit the website to create your account and to complete your application to become a registered vendor. Yes. All procurement opportunities for the WMO are published on our website as well as on the United Nations Global Marketplace website. Buyers search for potential vendors based on the United Nations Standard Product and Services Code (UNSPSC) indicated in your application to become a potential vendor with the WMO tenders. Accurate selection of UNSPSC codes that describe your core products and services, and which are in line with the tender requirements of the WMO, will increase the likelihood of your company being invited to bids. Regularly checking our website to review open procurement opportunities and expressing your interest in these directly is another way to ensure that your company is invited to participate in tenders. It is possible to sign up for the Tender Alert Service on the UNGM website which will ensure that all procurement opportunities matching the UNSPSC codes selected in your UNGM account are e-mailed to you. One reason why your company should never been invited to bid may be that the product or service you offer is rarely required by the WMO, and we simply have no need to buy any of them. Be aware that the WMO is only one entity within the 21 UN entities and each have a distinct portfolio. Please review the General Business Guide, which is available at the Knowledge Centre in the publications section for more information on the procurement requirements of the 21 UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes participating in the United Nations Global Marketplace. You are encouraged to consult our website or the United Nations Global Marketplace where all open Expressions of Interest (EOI) are published and contact the Procurement and Contract Management Division for information. Please note, however, that the first step to participating in procurement opportunities with the WMO and other agencies of the UN System is by registering as a vendor at the United Nations Global Marketplace. Contact information for the WMO can be found in the Contact section and on the UNGM website for other Agencies, Funds and Programmes. As an inter-governmental organization, the WMO is exempt from the payment of taxes and duties for its purchases. The WMO does not normally make specific visits to individual companies. However, the UN system does organize Business Seminars which offer opportunities for companies to meet with procurement officials and which may include visits to select industries. Yes, of course. The WMO procures on an international basis from vendors of all sizes and from all geographical locations. Sometimes our requirements are large and sometimes our requirements are small. For this reason, we have different levels of registration and companies can choose the level at which they wish to register based on the size of their company and the size of contract that they are able to manage. A description of the different levels of registration and the requirements for each level can be found at Vendor Registration. Delivery requirements for purchases are usually specified in the tender documents (ITB, RFP). Delivery requirements may range from Ex-Works (EXW) to Delivered At Place (DAP) or Free Carrier (FCA). Your ability to comply with the stated delivery requirements will be factored into the evaluation process. We are not authorized to issue visas. Visas to Switzerland can only be issued by the Swiss Embassy or Consulate in your country. The WMO payment terms are normally net 30 days upon receipt of invoice and delivery of goods or performance of contractual services, whichever is later. Advance payments and progress payments prior to delivery of goods or performance of contractual services ordered may be approved on an exceptional basis at the discretion of the WMO, if such payments are required pursuant to normal commercial practice or considered to be in the interest of the WMO. The United Nations does not issue letters of credit. The WMO may require a successful contractor to furnish performance bonds in the United Nations standard format or similar forms of financial guarantee. The amount of performance bonds/guarantees will vary depending on the nature of the requirements. The WMO may also include a liquidated damages clause in its contractual documents in case adherence to the schedule of delivery of goods or performance of contractual services is critical to meet the requirements of the WMO. No. The WMO procures goods and services on an international basis and we prefer to deal directly with Vendors. Presence in Switzerland will not result in any advantage for your company. No. The WMO does business with vendors from all over the world, guided, among others, by the Best Value for Money principle. Nevertheless, the WMO also represents 193 Member States, which guides it to diversify its vendor database in its business dealings. The WMO is therefore constantly seeking to attract suppliers from countries and regions hitherto under-represented and is actively increasing its sources of supplies of goods and services from vendors in countries categorised as developing or with economies in transition. © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)