Continuous broadcast of concert music and opera, recorded from locations throughout Europe The Dissolution of Genres: Symphonic Quartets Armida Quartet plays string quartets by Haydn, Janacek and Schubert. John Shea presents. 360 mins Fortepiano Trios Beethoven and Schubert played by Andreas Staier, Daniel Sepec and Roel Dieltiens. 360 mins Mainly Martinu Lausanne Chamber Orchestra with music by Martinu, Roussel and Haydn. John Shea presents. 360 mins Brahms and Weber in Novosibirsk Brahms's Piano Concerto No 2 and Weber's Symphony No 1 at the Trans-Siberian Art Festival. 360 mins The greatest choral masterpiece? Bach B Minor Mass performed by Balthasar Neumann Chorus Neumann Chorus & B'Rock Orchestra. 360 mins Debussy, Ravel and Chausson in Switzerland A concert from the 2018 Gstaad Musical Summits Festival presented by Jonathan Swain. 360 mins Schubert Lieder and French Art Simon Keenlyside and Malcolm Martineau perform songs by Brahms, Poulenc and Schubert. 360 mins Swedish Radio Orchestra from 1961 Johan Helmich Roman and Bernhard Crusell from the Swedish Radio Symphony Orchestra. 360 mins RTV Slovenia Symphony Orchestra Performances of Respighi's Three Botticelli Pictures and Strauss's Aus Italien. 360 mins Remembering André Previn André Previn conducts the Oslo Philharmonic in Beethoven and Mozart. 360 mins Choral music by Gorczycki An archive concert from the 2014 Wratislavia Cantans International Festival in Poland. 360 mins Velvet Divorce Party A programme of music marking the ratification of the Slovak constitution in 1992. 360 mins East meets West Zurich Chamber Orchestra at the 2018 Festival der Stille in Switzerland. 360 mins Berlioz, Dvorak and Shostakovich Novosibirsk Symphony Orchestra recorded at the Vadim Repin Trans-Siberian Art Festival. 360 mins A trio of trios The VibrArt Trio performs music by Dvorak, Schubert and Mompou. Jonathan Swain presents. 360 mins In Mahler's night garden São Paulo Symphony Orchestra takes a journey through the night in Mahler's Symphony No 7. 360 mins Mendelssohn, Mendelssohn and Brahms A concert given by the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra in Minnesota. Jonathan Swain presents. 360 mins Trans-Siberian Music Festival Vadim Repin and Nicholas Angelich perform chamber music by Dvorak and Brahms. 360 mins Sibelius and Brahms from Norway Oslo Philharmonic plays Brahms's Piano Concerto No 2 with soloist Simon Trp?eski. 360 mins Plowright in Poland Pianist Jonathan Plowright in recital at Poland's International Chopin Piano Festival. 360 mins