Jump to navigation Join fellow Isenberg alumni for a variety of homecoming events leading up to the big games! Isenberg is hosting many free events on Friday and Saturday, including an Open House reception to meet the new dean before the hockey game and an Isenberg Alumni Tailgate tent before the football game. Register early to receive exclusive Isenberg swag and get access to our reserved seats for Isenberg alumni! 4:00PM - 6:00PM ISENBERG OPEN HOUSE & MEET THE DEAN Isenberg Business Innovation Hub Come meet Isenberg's new dean, Dr. Anne Massey and check out Isenberg's new building - the Business Innovation Hub. Tour the new space and learn about the architectural design, functionality and user experience of this dynamic addition which will take Isenberg into the next decade and beyond! Food and drinks will be served. Guests are welcome. 5:00PM - 10:00PM ISENBERG @ THE HOMECOMING BLOCK PARTY Campus Pond Lawn Stop by our tent for food, raffles, a photo booth and more! 7:00pm Hockey: UMass vs. AIC Mullins Center Come cheer on our 2019 NCAA Division I Finalists as they take on local rival the AIC Yellow Jackets! Tickets available for our reserved Isenberg alumni section for $10 a piece, including parking. Guest are welcome. 1:30pm - 3:30pm Isenberg Alumni Tailgate McGuirk Alumni Stadium Lot 11 Enjoy hours of tailgating favorites hosted by Dean Massey! Featuring #1 UMass dining, local offerings from Berkshire Brewing Company, Black Birch Wines, & V1 Vodka, lawn games and the chance to win one-of-a-kind set of Isenberg Cornhole Boards! 2 drink tickets and unlimited food will be included free when you register. Guests are welcome. 3:30pm Football: UMass vs. UConn McGuirk Alumni Stadium Come get loud with us! Tickets available for our reserved Isenberg alumni section for $10 a piece, including parking. Guests are welcome. Contact Alexxis Young, ajyoung@isenberg.umass.edu with any questions.   You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.