British Broadcasting CorporationHome Accessibility links BBC Online includes links to both internal (BBC) and external (non-BBC) websites. We select links that are editorially relevant to the content they are linking from and are suitable for the likely audience. These links are included for a number of reasons, including: We do not link to external sites in return for cash, services or any other consideration in kind. We link to sites purely on editorial merit. These will most often be free to access, but users may sometimes be asked to register or subscribe before viewing content. The BBC homepage does not accept submissions or requests. The homepage team selects links and evaluates websites on the basis of editorial relevance. External links are selected and reviewed when the page is published. However, the BBC is not responsible for the content of external websites. This is because: Some of our external links may be to websites which also offer commercial services, such as online purchases. The inclusion of a link to an external website from bbc.co.uk should not be understood to be an endorsement of that website or the site's owners (or their products/services). Some of the content we link to on both BBC sites and external ones is generated by members of the public (messageboards and photo-sharing sites for example). The views expressed are those of the public and unless specifically stated are not those of the BBC. If you consider this content to be in breach of the house rules as indicated on the website, please alert the moderators or site owners on the sites where the material appears. Increasingly, bbc.co.uk is making more video and audio content available online (via a video or radio player). The BBC online guidelines state: Where appropriate, users are informed of the nature of the material they might expect to see or hear by clear labelling on destination pages and on the video or radio players. Search term: BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.