Jump to navigation Students choose Isenberg’s online option to complete an undergraduate degree because they want to advance in their professions or make a career change. Isenberg offers freedom without compromise—a flexible learning environment that delivers a superior AACSB-accredited education. Our advisors are experts with over ten years of experience guiding students through online education. We offer personalized advice on any aspect of Isenberg, from applying to a program to choosing the right classes. Your success is our top priority, and we welcome the opportunity to talk with you. Advising hours 9:00 am – 4:30 pm EST Monday through Friday. Program Information Specialist, Undergraduate Online [javascript protected email address] |413.577.2760 Academic Advisor, Undergraduate Online [javascript protected email address] |413.577.2760 Our advisors are seasoned counselors with a deep understanding of your needs as working professionals and offer as much or as little guidance as you need. Current online undergraduate students may schedule a phone appointment through the Advising section of the Isenberg Resource Center in Blackboard. Click the link below to view and download degree checklists for all majors. Our advisors can evaluate your unofficial transcripts which will give you a good idea of which courses will most likely transfer and what requirements you still need to fulfill. The preliminary transcript review does not guarantee admission. Tania, I just wanted to say again how appreciative I am of your diligence and continued communications throughout my time at UMASS. You certainly made the transition and process as easy as possible and I am thankful for your guidance. -BBA '14 Read our Student Profiles The Common Forms are reviewed by the Undergraduate Dean's Office in the Isenberg School of Management. Submission of a Common Form is a request that will be considered, and is not guaranteed to be granted.  If you take more than two semesters off after your semester of acceptance you need to e-mail (tmfuller@isenberg.umass.edu) the Reactivation Form to re-enroll.   The Late Course Withdrawal Petition is for Isenberg students to request to drop a course (non-Isenberg courses included) after the add/drop period. Before the mid-semester date, these petitions are considered for a "No Record" drop (no grade shows on transcript, course does not show on transcript, GPA is not affected). After the mid-semester date, petitions are considered for a "W" drop (course shows on transcript with a "W" as the course grade, GPA is not affected).  You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.