We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes What you need to know. Follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube. Visit our home page for the top stories of the day. Starbucks sources coffee from more than 30 countriespic.twitter.com/dJ0jNlxmUY The dates printed on food at the market can be deceiving — make sure you know what they meanpic.twitter.com/6fWiFaQ317 From cleaning to gate directions, these robots can be a huge travel helppic.twitter.com/LLtdVU8WNt Our Banking team pours thousands of hours of research into helping you master the future of business and consumer banking. Sign up today: http://bit.ly/2NVL06N pic.twitter.com/kXlqdq9Tv4 Testing the 2020 GMC Sierra's six-way tailgatepic.twitter.com/vASXh9iz8G Gerrymandering makes it easier for certain parties to stay in power — and it's a huge problempic.twitter.com/DQUGsQjMm9 Sheets should be dried in a hot cycle to kill off dust mitespic.twitter.com/vzTXCeXpBB Google and Nintendo are well-positioned to leverage gaming content and success of headsets to disrupt the VR market: http://bit.ly/2UNwKyD pic.twitter.com/wwfRjat6SW If someone is incredibly skilled in one area, they are less likely to be overly-competent communicatorspic.twitter.com/7lQ4fRBdac Why introverts will make better leaders in the futurepic.twitter.com/4hwa8TLsbx The design of the arch was decided upon through a contestpic.twitter.com/AZCUAFEALy Weigh the pros between paying off loans and investing the money you havepic.twitter.com/rBBSooR7l3 If we do this right, we can build a much more dynamic economypic.twitter.com/uJG6l7hvNg You can now dive with your boatpic.twitter.com/xlKIdEmj56 Double rainbows appear when light bounces more than once inside a raindroppic.twitter.com/cLnrEjCRFV The Longhorns are in it to win it, and so is their locker roompic.twitter.com/f2B3dqV9MX Contact businesses you frequent and see if they offer cash referralspic.twitter.com/OwZkghozjU The US has a $223 million “Doomsday Plane” that would become the center of command for the military in the event of a nuclear warpic.twitter.com/hZXMUIX8fU If you feel you are entitled to more compensation after being bumped from a flight, go ahead and negotiatepic.twitter.com/Lgij7W2WFy Thanks Facebook, but I don't need to know everyone's birthdaypic.twitter.com/OW4JmZx0dV @businessinsider hasn't sent any Tweets with photos or videos yet. Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.  You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.