How a giant order from the Middle East transformed Grant Macdonald's silversmith business. How a giant order from the Middle East transformed Grant Macdonald's silversmith business. Laila Pence fled war in Egypt to go on and become a multimillionaire US businesswoman. Colombian dancer Beto Perez first came up with the idea behind Zumba when he was 16. Christina Sass of software engineer recruitment firm Andela says that talent can be found anywhere. Young entrepreneur Marcin Kleczynski secretly ran his business Malwarebytes from his college dormitory. When tech entrepreneur Hiroki Takeuchi was paralysed in a cycling accident, he was back in work just three months later. How entrepreneur Andy Scott was able to rebuild his business and personal fortune. How a giant order from the Middle East transformed Grant Macdonald's silversmith business. Laila Pence fled war in Egypt to go on and become a multimillionaire US businesswoman. Colombian dancer Beto Perez first came up with the idea behind Zumba when he was 16. Christina Sass of software engineer recruitment firm Andela says that talent can be found anywhere. Young entrepreneur Marcin Kleczynski secretly ran his business Malwarebytes from his college dormitory. When tech entrepreneur Hiroki Takeuchi was paralysed in a cycling accident, he was back in work just three months later. How entrepreneur Andy Scott was able to rebuild his business and personal fortune. Laila Pence fled war in Egypt to go on and become a multimillionaire US businesswoman. Colombian dancer Beto Perez first came up with the idea behind Zumba when he was 16. Christina Sass of software engineer recruitment firm Andela says that talent can be found anywhere. Mike Peake Business reporter How a giant order from the Middle East transformed Grant Macdonald's silversmith business. Sarah Dodds Business reporter After a decade as a Buddhist monk, Andy Puddicombe set up Headspace with one of his clients. Russell Hotten Business reporter, BBC News Vertical farming is fast-expanding but the costs are high and the food range is limited - for now. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News