Jump to navigation The Isenberg Online MBA is the perfect program for professionals looking to be leaders in their industry. Combining the quality curriculum of our on-campus Masters of Business Administration program with the flexibility of the online platform, the Online MBA provides quality learning tailored to the student's schedule and timetable. Participants can choose to complete their MBA 100% online, or, if they are located in the Massachusetts area, can take classes online and in-person at one of our three satellite campus locations: Springfield, Shrewsbury, and Boston. Join the more than 1200 professionals, many with more than 10 years work experience, currently enrolled in the program. Get started today. Need assistance with this form? Need assistance with this form? Someone will be in touch with you within 48 hours. At Isenberg, you'll receive a superior education you can trust and afford with the flexibility you need. Isenberg seeks the best and brightest. We value our students’ experience and wisdom, and believe their participation elevates discussion at the highest level and creates business leaders who are comfortable with the natural exchange of ideas in today’s global economy. We not only want to make sure that you're the right fit for Isenberg, but that we're the right fit for you. Our Student Body Our community includes applicants from all over the world bringing varied academic and professional backgrounds and interests. Our students are exceptional—curious, conscientious and driven—and include doctors, entrepreneurs, attorneys, scientists, world travelers, CFOs and marketing managers, representing all 50 states and numerous foreign countries. What We Look For Students who successfully apply to our online MBA are accomplished, engaged, innovative and conscientious. We strive to build a class of accountable leaders who are confident yet grounded, welcome a challenge, and are strong collaborators. Academic history, aptitude for graduate-level work, motivation, and meaningful professional experience are all taken into consideration. Prior business education is not required to be admitted into the program and may exempt you from some foundational coursework. We require that online MBA applicants have at least 3-5 years of experience in their field. Application Requirements  When to Apply for Admissions: Course Registration Generally Begins:  UMass Amherst supports military professionals and their families. Learn more You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.