Amid a growing backlash against fast fashion, firms are looking at new fabrics from mushrooms and pineapples. Amid a growing backlash against fast fashion, firms are looking at new fabrics from mushrooms and pineapples. Banksy reckoned we would all be anonymous for 15 minutes, but is this even possible? Understanding women's bodies better is helping to improve their sporting performance. Gaming has long been stigmatised as the preserve of the socially inadequate, but this is changing. What's the point of racing autonomous supercars against each other? Social media influencers are getting younger and younger, but at what cost to their wellbeing? Website content moderators have to see some very disturbing material. How do they cope? Amid a growing backlash against fast fashion, firms are looking at new fabrics from mushrooms and pineapples. Banksy reckoned we would all be anonymous for 15 minutes, but is this even possible? Understanding women's bodies better is helping to improve their sporting performance. Gaming has long been stigmatised as the preserve of the socially inadequate, but this is changing. What's the point of racing autonomous supercars against each other? Social media influencers are getting younger and younger, but at what cost to their wellbeing? Website content moderators have to see some very disturbing material. How do they cope? Banksy reckoned we would all be anonymous for 15 minutes, but is this even possible? Understanding women's bodies better is helping to improve their sporting performance. Gaming has long been stigmatised as the preserve of the socially inadequate, but this is changing. Eleanor Lawrie Technology of Business reporter Amid a growing backlash against fast fashion, firms are looking at new fabrics from mushrooms and pineapples. Mark Smith Technology of Business reporter Banksy reckoned we would all be anonymous for 15 minutes, but is this even possible? Nicola K Smith Business reporter Understanding women's bodies better is helping to improve their sporting performance. David Molloy BBC News Gaming has long been stigmatised as the preserve of the socially inadequate, but this is changing. Padraig Belton Business reporter What's the point of racing autonomous supercars against each other? Suzanne Bearne Business reporter Social media influencers are getting younger and younger, but at what cost to their wellbeing? Ivana Davidovic Business reporter, BBC News Website content moderators have to see some very disturbing material. How do they cope? Monty Munford Technology of Business reporter Investing in digital currencies is fraught with danger, not just because the prices are so volatile. Chris Baraniuk Technology reporter How Facebook’s Libra could be stopped in its tracks Howard Mustoe Business reporter Electric cars have to be as cool as petrol ones to really take off, and these engineers think they can be Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News