Burnley Jaklevic is Interim Director and Senior Licensing Officer in the Technology Transfer Office (TTO) at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. She joined the TTO in December 2012, where she is part of a team that works closely with UMass Amherst faculty, staff and students as they develop inventions and software that may have commercial applications. Prior to joining the TTO, Burnley was a Licensing Associate in the technology licensing office at Texas A&M University. She earned her B.A. degree in genetics from UC Davis and worked for three years on the Human and Drosophila Genome Projects at Berkeley National Laboratory. She received her Ph.D. in Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology from the University of Colorado Boulder where she carried out her thesis research in the laboratory of Dr. Tin Tin Su on cell cycle checkpoints, DNA repair and apoptosis. Following her graduate studies, Dr. Jaklevic was a postdoctoral fellow with Dr. Kristin Scott at UC Berkeley, studying neural circuits underlying taste and feeding behavior. Burnley enjoys working with UMA inventors and exploring the commercial potential of their inventions. Phone: 413-577-0651 Email: bjaklevic@research.umass.edu Dr. Ling X. Shen is a Senior Licensing Officer in the Technology Transfer Office (TTO) at the University of Massachusetts Amherst and has worked as a technology transfer professional since 2007. Prior to joining the TTO, she spent eight years in the biotech industry in Cambridge, MA where she served in scientific and managerial positions with increasing levels of responsibility. In 2002, Ling joined Hybridon, Inc. as Director of Scientific Affairs, where she marketed the company’s technologies to universities and research institutes worldwide, and built multiple research collaborations in North America, Europe and Asia. Ling earned her B.S. in Chemistry from Fudan University, M.S. in Chemistry from San Francisco State University, M.B.A. from the UMass Amherst Isenberg School of Management, and Ph.D. in Chemistry from the University of California at Berkeley. She pursued postdoctoral research in structural biology, biochemistry and molecular biology at UC Berkeley and UC Santa Cruz. Phone: 413-545-5276 Email: lxshen@research.umass.edu Tom Ferguson, Ph.D., is a Licensing Associate in the Technology Transfer Office (TTO) at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, where he is primarily responsible for commercializing inventions in engineering and computer science. Prior to joining the TTO in 2017, Tom was Chief Technology Officer for Third Power Inc., a NY start-up company developing large-scale energy storage technologies. At Third Power Tom led both technology and business development efforts, and worked with major utility companies including Con Edison and Pacific Gas and Electric Company. Previously, Tom was a Postdoctoral TechBridge Fellow at the Fraunhofer Center for Sustainable Energy Systems. At TechBridge he led programs sponsored by ExxonMobil, DSM and Shell to identify and accelerate promising clean energy startups. He also serves as a mentor for several startup accelerator programs in the Northeast. Tom received his Bachelor’s degrees in Physics and Astronomy from Vassar College, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Earth & Environmental Engineering from Columbia University. His graduate research focused on a novel alkali thermal treatment method to convert biomass into high-purity hydrogen for distributed energy generation. At Columbia Tom also gained experience in university technology transfer by serving as a fellow with Columbia Technology Ventures. His responsibilities included evaluating Columbia inventions in the physical sciences and developing marketing strategies to attract licensees and corporate research sponsors. Phone: 413-577-3750 Email: tferguson@umass.edu Lyne Laliberté is the Manager of Operations and Patent Administration in the Technology Transfer Office (TTO) at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. Lyne joined the office in 2001 and has a leading role in our “TTO Services for the Creative Arts” initiative. She is also responsible for the day-to-day operations of the TTO, including financial management, patent prosecution & maintenance, post-execution license compliance and copyright registrations. She also oversees the office’s information management database system and the TTO’s website. Lyne is a member of the Association of University Technology Managers (AUTM). She holds a B.A. from Mount Holyoke College and prior to joining UMass served as a corporate paralegal for a marketing company and as a paralegal in the law offices of Doherty, Wallace, Pillsbury and Murphy, PC. Lyne also taught in the Springfield, Massachusetts school system. Phone: 413-545-1062 Email: laliberte(AT)research.umass.edu Maryanne Laukaitis is an administrative assistant in the Technology Transfer Office (TTO) where she is responsible for processing Material Transfer Agreements and Confidential Disclosure Agreements, among other administrative duties. A graduate of Smith College, Maryanne worked for 9 years at Kollmorgen Corporation Electro-Optical Division as a mechanical designer for periscope subassemblies and training equipment. At UMass she was mechanical designer for the Five College Radio Astronomy program for 8 years, working on components for the radio telescope located at Quabbin Reservoir. Subsequently, she was administrative assistant for the Director of the Massachusetts Rural Development Council, which was hosted by the UMass Landscape Architecture and Regional Planning department. There she ran the office as well as writing/editing the newsletter and actively participating in planning two national conferences on rural development. Phone: 413-545-3606 Email: maryanne@research.umass.edu Robert (Bob) MacWright, Ph.D., Esq, is former director of the Technology Transfer Office at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, currently serving as a consultant. Dr. MacWright has been an academic technology transfer professional since 1985. Prior to joining UMass Amherst, he led three academic technology transfer programs; he was director of the Office of Corporate Liaison and Technology Transfer at Rutgers University, CEO of the University of Virginia Patent Foundation, and director of the Office of Technology Management at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies. Dr. MacWright is also a registered patent attorney, and has practiced law with prominent law firms in New York and Washington, D.C. In his legal practice he represented academic institutions, biotechnology companies and venture funds in intellectual property transactions, litigation and corporate finance. He received his Ph.D. in biochemistry from Rutgers University and the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, and his law degree from Rutgers School of Law – Newark. Email: macwright@research.umass.edu Fred Reinhart is a Senior Advisor in the Technology Transfer Office (TTO) at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. He is also a past president of the board of directors of the Association of University Technology Managers (AUTM - www.autm.net), an association for academic technology transfer professionals. Reinhart has been in the field of academic technology management for over 30 years and has held positions at Wayne State University, New England Medical Center and the University of Michigan. He was also vice president for finance for AUTM and chair of the Michigan Biosciences Industry Association. Reinhart joined the Technology Transfer Office, then known as Commercial Ventures and Intellectual Property, in 2012 and served as director until 2014. Mass Venture Center, Suite 201 100 Venture Way Hadley, MA 01035 Phone: 413-545-3606 Email: tto@umass.edu ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact