Austrian alpine skier Marcel Hirscher calls time on a career which saw him win a record eight World Cup titles in a row. Blanca Fernández Ochoa's body was found in a mountainous area near Madrid after days of searching. British snowboarder Katie Ormerod finishes second in the big air event on her first World Cup appearance in almost two years. Reigning champion Bruce Mouat must win a play-off to represent Scotland at the European Championships, but Eve Muirhead is selected. Check out the BBC Sport Live Guide for details of all the forthcoming live sport on the BBC. Watch highlights from the final day British Ski & Snowboarding Championships in Switzerland as Matt McCormick & 12-year-old Mia Brooks win the snowboard slopestyle events. Canada prides itself on two things: diversity and hockey. But the two don't always go hand in hand. Banned by ski resorts for years, snowboards were first allowed on the slopes in 1983 at Stratton Mountain. Jake Burton helped create the sport Record breaker Lindsey Vonn will ski professionally for the final time on Sunday. Here are five reasons she has etched her name into sporting history. A year ago Katie Ormerod was on the brink of superstardom as a leading British medal prospect at the Winter Olympics - but she would break bones rather than records. Four former NFL pros had a competitive itch to scratch and a dream of competing at the Olympics - so they have taken up curling. Meet British figure skaters Lewis Gibson and Lilah Fear, who talk about Dancing on Ice inspiration, standing ovations and Olympic dreams. Katie Ormerod tells BBC Sport about "dark days" in her recovery from a broken heel and how she plans to take women's snowboarding to the next level. Follow the story of Katie Ormerod's path to her Olympic dream, only for her to crash out just hours before the Games started. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you How to get into curling - an intricate, tactical back-and-forth game on a sheet of ice, accessible to all ages. How to get into ice skating - find a rink near you and start gliding across the ice. Learn how to get involved in ice hockey to put your skating and hand-eye co-ordination to the test. How to get into skiing - a full-body workout, guaranteed to get you fitter, with slopes and centres across the UK. Latest news and results from the official site. 'England will plan racism response' F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France Bayliss reflects on time with England I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad