Jump to navigation If accepted into the program, students should plan to take STOCKSCH 376 "Managing the Student Farm I: Planning for Production" during the spring semester - work full time on the farm in the summer - and then enroll in STOCKSCH 476 "Managing the Student Farm II: Harvesting, Marketing and Finances" Both the spring and fall semester lecture courses are deisgned to be taken with practicum course STOCKSCH 398E "The Student Farming Entperise".  The course is designed with three parts: spring (planning and planting), summer (planting, growing, tending) and fall (harvesting and marketing). Taking both semesters and summer is encouraged, but not required. The course is designed to be taken in order, but it is possible to take the fall semester first or take only one semester if scheduling is an issue. We are now accepting applications for next semester. Preference will be given to those with academic background in agricultural sciences and with some farming or gardening experience, but we also seek diversity in majors, career goals, and life experiences. Be part of creating something new and exciting at UMass - a sustainable student farming project that will grow stronger every year! We continue to expand production and markets every year, along with our farming infrastructure. We will continue to work with our current cutomer base of seven on-campus markets including Earthfoods Cafe, a 60 member Fall CSA, Student Farmers Market, Dining Services and other student run businesses as well as the Amherst and Northampton Big Y Supermarkets.    Questions? Comments? Email us, we'd love to hear from you! If you can afford to do so, please consider donating to the Student Farm in order to help us continue to run and expand our farm to better serve you. Regardless of your contribution level, we are beyond humbled by your continued support. Thank you very much!  Fill out our contact form or call one of our advisors at 413-545-2222 to ask your questions, schedule a tour, or get more information! ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact 