UN Secretary-General António Guterres is calling on all leaders to come to New York on 23 September with concrete, realistic plans to enhance their nationally determined contributions by 2020, in line with reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 45% over the next decade, and to net zero emissions by 2050. Mountain regions cover about a quarter of the E The Global Climate Observing System (GCOS) is a co-sponsored programme which regularly assesses the status of global climate observations and produces guidance for its improvement. It is co-sponsored... Supporting the safety of life and property at sea, integrated coastal management and the minimization of societal impacts from natural hazards through the provision of meteorological-ocean services.... Assisting in the capacity development of National Meteorological and Hydrological Services (NMHSs) by improving human, technical and institutional capacities and infrastructure, particularly in developing, least developed and small island developing states and territories in order... Providing reliable, high quality, timely and cost-effective meteorological services to aviation users worldwide. Enabling worldwide use of specialized and tailored products in support of environmental emergency response involving large-scale dispersion of air-borne hazardous substances. Research activities focusing on high-impact weather – from basic research in the academic community to operational contributions. Assisting National Meteorological and Hydrological Services in providing weather and climate services to farmers, herders and fishermen in order to promote sustainable agricultural development, increase productivity and contribute to food security... Collecting, exchanging, processing and providing climate and hydrological observations, forecasts and data exchange to all WMO programmes. Ensuring the efficient and effective functioning of the six WMO Regional Associations in coordinating the meteorological, hydrological, climatologic and related activities of their Members by providing a framework for... Coordinating the activities of Members related to the space-based observing system component of the WMO Integrated Global Observing System to ensure sustained and interoperable satellite observations and to promote their... The World Climate Research Programme (WCRP) coordinates and guides international climate research to develop, share and apply the climate knowledge that contributes to societal well-being. Floods are the most common natural hazards with the largest impacts on society. Although exceptionally devastating floods distort the trend, flood impact records show that the number of related fatalities... Setting technical standards, quality control procedures and guidance for the use of meteorological instruments and observation methods in order to promote development documentation and worldwide standardization. WIGOS provides a framework for the integration and sharing of observational data from National Meteorological and Hydrological Services (NMHSs) and other sources. Coordinating the global system of telecommunication facilities and arrangements for the rapid collection, exchange and distribution of observations and processed information within the framework of the World Weather... Providing better hydrologic information, assessments and forecasts, so that Members are able to independently assess their water resources and respond to the threat of floods and droughts.... Enabling the National Meteorological and Hydrological Services (NMHSs) in Least Developed Countries (LDCs) to enhance both human and institutional capacities in order to eradicate poverty, achieve internationally agreed development goals... Addressing atmospheric composition on all scales: from global, regional, to local and urban. Enabling the delivery of weather and related services for sound decision-making on public safety and cost-efficiency in all social and economic activities affected by weather. Offering operationally reliable, surface-based and space-based subsystems with observing facilities on land, at sea, in the air and in outer space in support of the World Weather Watch... Enhancing the contributions of National Meteorological and Hydrological Services (NMHSs) to disaster risk reduction (DRR) at all levels in a more cooperative, cost-effective, systematic and sustainable manner.... Providing assistance and support to National Meteorological and Hydrological Services (NMHSs) in developing and least developed countries and small island developing states. Assisting Members in monitoring and forecasting tropical cyclones to reduce disaster-related losses of life and infrastructure. Small Island Developing States and Member Island Territories are low-lying island nations that are highly vulnerable and often affected by weather extremes and climate change, including the increased severity... Enabling worldwide use of timely, reliable and accurate Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) products and services in all time-scales for applications related to weather, climate, water and environment.... Whether due to natural climate variability or climate change, the likelihood of extreme weather conditions is increasing. The impacts include more frequent and severe droughts, which affect the... Improving the availability of, and access to, reliable climate data, monitoring and forecasts. Improving the understanding of the climate system for the benefit of societies coping with climate variability and change. Connecting people and institutions to the learning opportunities necessary for well-functioning meteorological, hydrological and climate services. WMO has extended the deadline for voting on its 2020 Calendar Competition, to allow extra time for peo © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)