Jump to navigation Through a wide variety of clubs, such as Isenberg Women in Business and the Association of Diversity in Sport, the school advances the academic, professional, and social needs of our community, provides leadership opportunities, and helps connect students with specific identities, backgrounds, and interests. The Association of Latino Professionals for America The Association of Latino Professionals for America (ALPFA) is a student run organization that works towards empowering and developing our members as leaders of character in every sector of the global market. Our mission is to provide students with internship opportunities as early as freshmen year, to seek advice from professional alumni who have become successful in their field, and to establish a network of peers that students can rely on for support. Membership is open to anyone who shares our values, mission, and principles.  The Association of Diversity in Sport The Association of Diversity in Sport (ADS) is an organization that embraces students of diverse backgrounds seeking to further their professional and personal development within a sport-oriented environment. Our focus is to create innovative, community-building events and initiatives, foster self-confidence, produce long-lasting personal networks, and give back to the community.  Jewish Leaders in Business Jewish Leaders in Business (JLB) will initiate, expand, and strengthen a professional business network to assist students in choosing a career path and finding jobs and internships. This will be accomplished through connecting students with Jewish professionals working in the business world. JLB will foster this network through encouraging business principles, and ethics, working with diverse groups on campus, while welcoming students of all faiths and backgrounds.  National Association of Black Accountants We, a group of individuals with similar academic and future professional interests in accounting and finance, desire to unite in a professional association to promote group identity, to advance academic development, and to create esprit de corps. We strive to instill desire for self-improvement, to foster moral and ethical standards, to encourage and recognize academic achievement. NABA also works to cultivate a sense of professional and civic responsibility and service, while promoting the study of accounting, finance and business related subjects.  National Society of Minorities in Hospitality NSMH is the Premiere Professional Hospitality Organization. Our mission is to educate in order to aid in the recruitment, retention, support, and advancement of minority students in the hospitality industry. We address diversity and multiculturalism, offer career development to exceptional students, build future leaders, and provide resources into the hospitality industry.  NAWMBA The National Association of Women MBAs (NAWMBA) is a not-for-profit organization dedicated to empowering female business professionals, to assisting women into leadership positions in business, and to enhancing the diversity of the workforce worldwide. We serve four related client groups: female MBA students, female business professionals and MBA-level entrepreneurs, universities and corporate partners.  Women in Business Isenberg WiB seeks to connect students to support each other professionally and personally as we navigate as students in the classroom and prepare for a successful career post graduation. WiB offers members a supportive environment to establish connections and foster confidence within each other in our development as students and young professionals.  Women in Sport Management Women in Sport Management (WISM) was formed in 1992 in order to help women in the department, as well as other departments and programs locally, acquire the skills, knowledge, networks, and confidence necessary to establish themselves in what is currently an overwhelmingly male-dominated industry. WISM is available to faculty, graduate students and for men and women inside the Five-College Community. Through educational and social events, guest speakers, conferences and promotional events, the goal of WISM members is to gain practical knowledge while advancing the role of women in Sport Management. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.