An amateur astronomer has discovered a comet that could come from outside our Solar System. An amateur astronomer has discovered a comet that could come from outside our Solar System. A historic global agreement aimed at halting deforestation and curbing dangerous carbon dioxide emissions has failed, according to a report. Astronomers discover water in the atmosphere of a "habitable" planet orbiting a distant star. The male skeletons, buried in Roman times, have been holding hands for around 1,500 years. Defence chiefs want a batch of small spacecraft able to see the Earth's surface in all weathers. The ship is believed to be a cargo vessel sunk by a submarine during World War Two. Plans to restore ecosystems in the countryside will support landowners, its director says. An amateur astronomer has discovered a comet that could come from outside our Solar System. A historic global agreement aimed at halting deforestation and curbing dangerous carbon dioxide emissions has failed, according to a report. Astronomers discover water in the atmosphere of a "habitable" planet orbiting a distant star. The male skeletons, buried in Roman times, have been holding hands for around 1,500 years. Defence chiefs want a batch of small spacecraft able to see the Earth's surface in all weathers. The ship is believed to be a cargo vessel sunk by a submarine during World War Two. Plans to restore ecosystems in the countryside will support landowners, its director says. A historic global agreement aimed at halting deforestation and curbing dangerous carbon dioxide emissions has failed, according to a report. Astronomers discover water in the atmosphere of a "habitable" planet orbiting a distant star. The male skeletons, buried in Roman times, have been holding hands for around 1,500 years. Scientists have discovered a balloon-like structure which they believe was created by an energetic burst that erupted near the Milky Way millions of years ago Operator Cannock Wind Farm Services says the turbines have not caused a statutory noise nuisance. Paul Rincon Science editor, BBC News website An amateur astronomer has discovered a comet that could come from outside our Solar System. Mark Kinver Environment reporter, BBC News A historic global agreement aimed at halting deforestation and curbing dangerous carbon dioxide emissions has failed, according to a report. Confusion over whether AlienStock is still happening in Nevada? Pallab Ghosh Science correspondent, BBC News Astronomers discover water in the atmosphere of a "habitable" planet orbiting a distant star. Stephanie Finnon BBC Newcastle It's the silent killer you can't see, smell or taste... Cases of carbon monoxide poisoning are rising in the North East. Figures from our region's fire services show a 42% increase over the past five years. Symptoms include dizziness, tiredness, headaches and nausea, meaning it is sometimes mistaken for a hangover. The best way to protect yourself is with a carbon monoxide detector. The male skeletons, buried in Roman times, have been holding hands for around 1,500 years. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News