Tourism & Visit Business Employment Study & Exchange Immigrate Other Visa Categories U.S. Visa: Reciprocity and Civil Documents by Country Visa Wizard Visa Denials Fraud Warning What the Visa Expiration Date Means Automatic Revalidation Countries with Limited or No U.S. Visa Services Lost and Stolen Passports, Visas, and Arrival/Departure Records (Form I-94) A-Z Index Glossary Directory of Visa Categories Straight Facts on U.S. Visas Customer Service Statement Photo Requirements Photo Examples Digital Image Requirements Photo Frequently Asked Questions Photo Composition Template Forms Online Immigrant Visa Forms DS-260 Immigrant Visa Electronic Application - Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) DS-160: Online Nonimmigrant Visa Application DS-160: Frequently Asked Questions Administrative Processing Information Visa Appointment Wait Times Nonimmigrants in the United States–Applying for Visas in Canada or Mexico Frequently Asked Questions Visa Applicants - State Sponsors of Terrorism Countries What is a U.S. Visa? About Visas - The Basics Rights and Protections for Foreign-Citizen Fiancé(e)s and Spouses of U.S. Citizens and Spouses of Lawful Permanent Residents Your Rights and Protections Ineligibilities and Waivers: Laws Rights and Protections for Temporary Workers Advisory Opinions Fees for Visa Services Treaty Countries Fees and Reciprocity Tables Reciprocity: What's New? Temporary Reciprocity Schedule Presidential Proclamations Country Acronyms Reciprocity: What's New? 2018 Archive Safety & Security of U.S. Borders: Biometrics National Visa Center Customer Service Pledge Americans Traveling Abroad The United States and China Agree to Extending Visas for Short-term Business Travelers, Tourists, and Students Special Visa Processing Procedures Pursuant to Section 306 Capitalizing on Visa Demand to Spur Economic Growth in the United States Congressional Testimony Cuban Family Reunification Parole (CRFP) Program Appointments List of U.S. Embassies and Consulates - K1-K3 Visas U.S. Government Fact Sheet on Female Genital Mutilation or Cutting (FGM/C) Skill List by Country December 4, 2017 - Court Order on Presidential Proclamation June 26 Supreme Court Decision on Presidential Proclamation 9645 Ask NVC List of U.S. Embassies and Consulates USCIS Extends Suspension of Premium Processing Service for Religious Workers (R-1) Nonimmigrant Visa Classification Record Numbers of U.S. Students Are Studying Abroad U.S. Student Visas Reach Record Numbers in 2007 U.S. security officials will begin scanning all 10 fingerprints of most non-Americans traveling to the United States Electronic Submission of Diversity Visa Lottery Applications USCIS Centralizes Filing for H-2A Petitions USCIS Field Office Adopts Teletech Call Appointment System For Filing Waiver of Inadmissibility Applications Application Fees for Non-Immigrant Visas to Increase on January 1, 2008 Senior Advisors to Brief Press on the Latest Developments in Iraqi Refugee and Special Immigrant Visa Issues Briefing on Developments in the Iraqi Refugee and Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) Admissions Programs DHS Proposes Changes to Improve H-2A Temporary Agricultural Worker Program Testimony of Stephen A. “Tony” Edson on U.S. House of Representatives, Committee on Science and Technology Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, House Committee on Science and Technology Update: Biometric Changes for Re-entry Permits and Refugee Travel Documents With All the Talk about Illegal Immigration, a Look at the Legal Kind Latvia, Estonia Sign Deals with US on Visa-Free Travel Fact Sheet: Changes to the FY2009 H-1B Program USCIS Announces Interim Rule on H-1B Visas USCIS Releases Preliminary Number of FY 2009 H-1B Cap Filings USCIS Extends Comment Period for Proposed Change to H-2A Program USCIS Runs Random Selection Process for H-1B Petitions 17-Month Extension of Optional Practical Training for Certain Highly Skilled Foreign Students DHS Begins Collecting 10 Fingerprints from International Visitors at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport Hague Convention on Intercountry Adoption Enters into Force USCIS to Accept H-1B Petitions Sent to California or Vermont Service Centers Temporary Accommodation Made for FY 09 Cap-Subject H-1B Petitions USCIS Revises Filing Instructions for Petition for Alien Relative USCIS Announces Update for Processing Petitions for Nonimmigrant Victims of Criminal Activity USCIS to Allow F-1 Students Opportunity to Request Change of Status Immigration Tops Agenda at North American Summit USCIS Issues Guidance for Approved Violence against Women Act (VAWA) Self-Petitioners USCIS Modifies Application for Employment Authorization Previous Versions of Form I-765 Accepted until July 8, 2008 Overseas Education More Attainable for Chinese Students New York Business Group Seeks Fewer Restrictions on Foreign Worker Visas DHS Signs Visa Waiver Program Agreements with Slovakia, Hungary and Lithuania DHS Signs Visa Waiver Program Agreement with Korea USCIS Announces a Proposal to Increase Periods of Stay for TN Professional Workers from Canada or Mexico DHS Proposes Biometric Airport and Seaport Exit Procedures Questions and Answers: USCIS Announces Interim Rule on H-1B Visas DHS Announces Implementation of the Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA) for Visa Waiver Program (VWP) Travelers Department of State Announces Diversity Visa Lottery (DV-2010) Registration President Bush Announces Visa Waiver Program Expansion - VWP travel begins November 17 Nonminister Special Immigrant Religious Worker Program Expiration President Obama signs into law, an extension for “SR” nonminister special immigrant religious workers Legal Rights and Protections for Certain Employment or Education-based Nonimmigrants–Notice: Informational Pamphlet is Now Available! Coming to the United States Temporarily - Nonimmigrant Visa Services Coming to the United States Permanently - Immigrant Services Special Visa Services This webpage lists visa application fees and other visa related fees collected by Department of State. Note that many immigration-related forms are submitted to the Department of Homeland Security’s United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), and not to the Department of State. If the type of information or form you are seeking is not shown here, select USCIS Forms and Fees to go to the USCIS Website to review more. Nonimmigrant visa application processing fees are tiered, as shown below, based on the visa category for which you are applying. Notice: Every visa applicant must pay the visa application processing fee for the visa category being applied for, unless the application fee is not required, as listed below. Nonimmigrant visa application processing fee (non-refundable) for all categories below Includes (but not limited to), the following visa categories: B Visitor Visa: Business, Tourism, Medical treatment C-1 Transiting the United States D Crewmembers - Airline, Ship F Student, Academic I Media and Journalists J Exchange Visitors *Applicants for J visas participating in official U.S. Government-sponsored educational and cultural exchanges: No Fee (See Exchange Visitor Visas for further detailed fee information.) M Students, Vocational TN/TD NAFTA Professionals T Victim of Trafficking in Persons U Victim of Criminal Activity Includes these visa categories: H Temporary Workers/Employment or Trainees L Intracompany Transferees O Persons with Extraordinary Ability P Athletes. Artists & Entertainers Q International Cultural Exchange R Religious Worker Immigrant visa application processing fees are tiered, as shown below, based on the visa category you apply for. Notice: Every visa applicant must pay the visa application processing fee for the visa category being applied for. Description of Service and Fee Amount (All fees = $ in US currency) Filing an Immigrant Visa Petition (When collected by U.S. Embassies and Consulates for USCIS. Fees subject to change.) Orphan (intercountry adoption) immediate relative petition (I-600, I-800) Immigrant Visa Application Processing Fees (non-refundable, per person) Immediate relative and family preference applications (processed on the basis of an approved I-130, I-600 or I-800 petition) $325.00  Employment-based applications (processed on the basis of an approved I-140 or I-526 petition) $345.00 Other immigrant visa applications (including approved I-360 self-petitioners, special immigrant visa applicants, returning resident (SB-1) applicants, and all others, except DV program selectees) $205.00  Certain Iraqi and Afghan special immigrant visa applications No Fee   Other Fees Diversity Visa Lottery fee (per person applying as a DV program selectee for a DV category immigrant visa) $330.00 Affidavit of Support Review (only when reviewed domestically) $120.00 Note: Forms and fee amounts are listed for immigration petitions which are submitted to Department of State, either accepted at a U.S. Embassy or Consulate abroad, or within the United States to the National Visa Center or Kentucky Consular Center. Other immigration related forms can only be approved by the Department of Homeland Security's United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). For other fees (relating to forms starting with an "I" select USCIS Forms and Fees for additional information. Application for Determining Returning Resident Status, Form DS-117 Transportation letter for Legal Permanent Residents of the United States Application for Waiver of two-year residency requirement, J Waiver, Form DS-3035 Application for Waiver of visa ineligibility, Form I-601 (Collected for USCIS and subject to change) Refugee or significant public benefit parole case processing Note: These fee charts are based on the Code of Federal Regulations - Title 22, Part 22, Sections 22.1 through 22.7.) A-Z Index Latest News What is a U.S. Visa? Diversity Visa Program Visa Waiver Program Fraud Warning Find a U.S. Embassy or Consulate Straight Facts on U.S. Visas Visa Wizard Visa Denials Fraud Warning What the Visa Expiration Date Means Countries with Limited or No U.S. Visa Services Lost and Stolen Passports, Visas, and Arrival/Departure Records (Form I-94) A-Z Index Glossary Directory of Visa Categories Straight Facts on U.S. Visas Customer Service Statement Photo Requirements Forms Administrative Processing Information Visa Appointment Wait Times Nonimmigrants in the United States–Applying for Visas in Canada or Mexico Frequently Asked Questions Rights and Protections for Foreign-Citizen Fiancé(e)s and Spouses of U.S. Citizens and Spouses of Lawful Permanent Residents Your Rights and Protections Ineligibilities and Waivers: Laws Rights and Protections for Temporary Workers Advisory Opinions Safety & Security of U.S. Borders: Biometrics National Visa Center Customer Service Pledge Americans Traveling Abroad The United States and China Agree to Extending Visas for Short-term Business Travelers, Tourists, and Students Special Visa Processing Procedures Pursuant to Section 306 Capitalizing on Visa Demand to Spur Economic Growth in the United States Congressional Testimony Cuban Family Reunification Parole (CRFP) Program Appointments List of U.S. Embassies and Consulates - K1-K3 Visas U.S. Government Fact Sheet on Female Genital Mutilation or Cutting (FGM/C) Skill List by Country Ask NVC List of U.S. Embassies and Consulates You are about to leave travel.state.gov for an external website that is not maintained by the U.S. Department of State. Links to external websites are provided as a convenience and should not be construed as an endorsement by the U.S. Department of State of the views or products contained therein. If you wish to remain on travel.state.gov, click the "cancel" message. You are about to visit:  Cancel GO