Through collaboration between UMass Amherst and the Town of Hadley and Hadley Police Department, Party Smart Registration is now available in Hadley. See the Party Registration webpage for more information and link to the news story here. Thank you to our panelists, speakers, and moderator for their participation in the forum. Moderator: David E. Sullivan, Northwestern District Attorney Guests Speakers: Peter Wilson, State Alcohol Task Force—Local Economic Development Work Group Chair Chief Frederick Mahony, Massachusetts Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission Robert Mellion, Esq. Executive Director and General Counsel, Mass Package Store Association Sean Barry, Owner, Four Seasons Wine & Liquors The Campus and Community Coalition and the Strategic Planning Initiative for Families and Youth (SPIFFY) Coalition will host a regional forum on alcoholic beverage regulation on Monday, March 19 from 9-11:30 a.m. at Old Chapel at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. Participants will learn about regulatory, enforcement and industry trends for alcoholic beverage retailers, municipal officials and law enforcement. The CCC works to promote responsible decision-making about alcohol and other drug use. We identify factors supporting high-risk and illegal drinking; analyze data; and implement proven and promising strategies to create positive change. Together, we seek to improve the health, safety and wellbeing of our communities. University and community leaders, with support from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, came together to form the Campus and Community Coalition to Reduce High-Risk Drinking (CCC) in 2005. Since its inception, students' risky drinking is down by as much as 26% and the comprehensive strategic plan which drives the efforts is garnering national recognition.    Lindsay Stromgren Assistant Fire Chief 413.259.3127 stromgrenL@amherstma.gov     2018-19 CCC Meeting Schedule 1:00 to 2:30 p.m. September 19 Campus Center 917 October 17 Amherst Police Dept. November 28 Campus Center 804 December 19 Campus Center 917 January 16 Old Chapel - Great Hall February 20 Campus Center 917 March 20 Campus Center 917 April 17 Campus Center 804 May 15 Campus Center 917 (cancelled)   ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact