Jump to navigation The UMass Amherst Student Farm grows certified organic produce and manages 14 acres of land, split between the UMass Research and Education Farm in South Deerfield, MA and the new Agricultural Learning Center, located on North Pleasant Street just north of the Amherst campus. The use of ecologically sound practices is a high priority, and each generation of Student Farmers continues to explore areas of growth and improvement for our environmental stewardship, while evaluating the trade-offs or benefits for our level of small-scale production agriculture. With each passing year of students at the helm, the Student Farm continues to grow dynamically, both in size and scope. In the 2016 season, we expanded our vegetable operation to eight of the fourteen acres we manage, continuing the pattern of steady growth from the previous year. We grew 48 different crops, including broccoli, brussels sprouts, swiss chard, sweet corn, carrots, eggplant, kale, kohlrabi, lettuce, onions, peppers, potatoes, squash, sweet potatoes, and tomatoes. In 2017 we are further expanding to ten acres of production, with increased wholesale plans and a larger CSA membership! Please email Amanda Brown to learn how you can be involved with this incredible student farm! Email: amandabrown@umass.edu The Farm School’s Learn To Farm program has set the standard for a rigorous, practical, real-world agricultural education located in Athol, MA. The year-long program for adults is designed to build the skills to succeed in a wide-range of agricultural fields — small discussion-based classes are balanced with long hours in the greenhouses, fields, forests and barns. You’ll fill your mind with practical understanding while teaching your hands and body the rhythms of serious farm work. The program is open to anyone age 18 or older, and a typical class has 12-16 members with an age range from 18 – 60. It runs from October to September. Generous scholarships are available. Admissions are rolling – they encourage you to apply early and applications received before April 1 will be given priority. A full year’s college credit is available for Sustainable Food and Farming majors at the UMass Stockbridge School of Agriculture. The UMass Hydrofarm located on campus at UMass Amherst! Each semester we offer a fun one or two credit practicum that allows students to gain hands-on experience in a greenhouse that produces healthy hydroponic produce. Students gain experience working in a team to germinate seeds, maintain hydroponic solutions, and harvest healthy produce that serves the campus community. Email us at UMassHydroFarm@gmail.com with a brief personal statement about your interest if you'd like to join our team for credit next semester. Natural Roots Farm Apprenticeship Program based in Conway, MA. We are a diverse horse-powered family farm focusing on vegetable production, loose-hay making, livestock, and logging. Offering 10 to 12 month apprenticeship positions featuring in-depth teamster training and daily hands-on driving experience in a production setting. Visit our website www.naturalroots.com for more information or contact David Fisher 413-369-4269 naturalroots@verizon.net Community Involved in Sustaining Agriculture (CISA) is accepting interns! CISA, based in South Deerfield, MA, strengthens farms and engages the community to build the local food economy. CISA is a non-profit, 501(c)3 organization. They began this work more than 20 years ago, and thousands of people in our region have contributed to their success and impact. More than 250 farms participate in the programs, and the number of residents who are committed to supporting local agriculture grows every day. The Be a Local Hero, Buy Locally Grown® program, the longest-running agricultural buy-local campaign in the country, connects farmers and the community, improving farm business viability and enhancing the quality of life for residents across the region. Please see here for their internship opportunities. Just Roots in Greenfield, MA is seeking three passionate people to work with us on refining and executing our food access programming and projects of 2018! The main focuses will be on Just Roots' Community Supported Agriculture Farm Share (CSA) program, our Community Garden, our USDA-funded healthy food access research study, and on marketing our programming so more people in our community know about the awesome resource they have at their fingertips as Franklin County residents. Internships are unpaid and between 5-20 hours/week. For more information about the internship email rochelle@justroots.org. For more info about jobs and the farm in general, email farm director Meryl LaTronica (meryl@justroots.org) or call the Just Roots office (413.325.8969). Interested in mushrooms production? Fungi Ally in Hatfield, MA is accepted interns for 10-20 hours/week. Tasks would include harvesting, packing orders, cleaning, mixing substrate and deliveries. Preferably a 3-6 month commitment, offered September-November, January-April, and May-August. Pay is $11/hr. Please email Wille: willie@fungially.com Yard Birds Farm in Montague, MA is seeking a summer intern for their small honeybee operation. One person is needed for approximately 5-8 hours of work per week which can be split into 1, 2 or 3 days. Work scope will include apiary management and systems modifications, queen rearing, equipment modifications, building and repair, honey extraction, other honeybee management tasks as needed. Some land management, including: cover crop seeding, weed whacking, invasive eradication, etc. Possibility of additional land management & systems design work if it's in line with student interest. Student should have some prior experience & working knowledge of basic carpentry tools: table & circular saw, nail gun, etc. Angela can currently offer college credit and a small stipend to cover travel expenses, and potentially a "work to own" hive- IE student works to earn a hive/hive equipment for their own set up. You can read more about what Angela does on the farm here: http://yardbirdsfarm.com/ Please message Angela directly at aroell@umass.edu or yardbirdsfarm@gmail.com Bardwell Farm is a 15-acre farm located in the heart of small town Hatfield, MA. We grow a variety of diversified vegetables for a road side farm stand from May through November. Along with the farm stand we also sell to a number of wholesale outlets, small local groceries, and restaurants. The Owner/Operator and Farm Production Manager are both recent graduates of the Stockbridge School of Agriculture's Sustainable Food & Farming Program and are eager to mentor and learn with other students in the field of agriculture. Our mission is understanding and implementing diversification and sustainable practices. We strive to be good land stewards while also providing fresh produce to the community in an economically viable way. Our farm is ever evolving and we welcome new perspectives and ideas. Volunteer work is encouraged and strongly appreciated. Part-time internships are available. For more information or questions please visit our website, shoot us an email or give us a call! All our information can be found at www.bardwellfarm.com Backyard Growers, in Gloucester MA is a grassroots organization that cultivates healthy, connected, environmentally sustainable communities and fights for food justice by teaching people to grow their own food. They manage school, community and backyard garden programs that engage families, students, and older adults in gardening and their food. In 2019, they are looking for several future food justice leaders to intern with us! They are looking to fill 4 positions: Event Intern, Outreach Intern, Education Intern, Urban Agriculture Intern. You can learn more about BYG and the internships at backyardgrowers.org/take-action/ or email us at community@backyardgrowers.org Morning Glory Farm, located on Martha's Vineyard, grows over 65 acres of vegetables and small fruits. Successive plantings of a wide variety of crops supply the busy farmstand, kitchen and bakery, and wholesale accounts from late May through December. In addition to vegetables the farm grows just over 2 acres of cut flowers, 40 acres of hay for grass fed cattle, home raised pork, pastured chickens and eggs, and a wide variety of culinary herbs. The business has grown rapidly and become very popular on Martha's Vineyard with a large and supportive following in an excellent market area. Employees have been instrumental in building the reputation and have enjoyed being part of the growth of a quality farm business. They supply housing for up to 25 employees in exchange for the first 8 hours of work each week. They are looking for people who want to work hard, enjoy the company of their fellow workers, produce a meaningful product, enjoy the outdoors (rain or shine), and apply their energies to the success of our cause. Good workers will find themselves in excellent company. For more information visit the website: https://morninggloryfarm.com/ Or email Stockbridge alumni and field crew manager, Michael Montuori: mcmontuori@gmail.com The Sampson Farm LP in Westport, MA internship consists of growing fruits and vegetables where you will experience the complete farming cycle from planting to harvesting. You will have responsibility for cultivating, harvesting and scouting and monitoring for disease and pest control. You will learn by doing and maintain a journal of your experiences. We will discuss regularly the progress of the crops, ideas for improvements and logistics in supplying the farm stand and farmers markets. You will learn financial aspects of farming including the costs of growing the produce and having input on product marketing and pricing. We are approved in the Massachusetts SNAP program and accept the EBT cards. Will provide base pay plus percentage of products sold. Email April Sampson: asampson@sampsoncpas.com Established in 1978, Sirius Eco-Village in Shutesbury, MA has pioneered community, education, sustainability, spirituality and for 40 years. Modeled after Findhorn in Scotland, Sirius serves as a role model for individuals, students and communities aspiring to be part of the solution. We are looking for students to learn, experience and explore the way life in an Eco-Village. Earn college credit in just three weeks by participating in an Immersion Program. Three sessions are available June 15 -July 6: July 9 - July 30: September 10 -October. 1. You will engage in the life of the community as you work side by side with residences living at Sirius. Morning tasks Tuesday through Friday include working in the gardens and orchard, building and permaculture design, green building construction, sustainable energy production, and retreat center facilitation operations. You will take turns cooking in a vegetarian kitchen, join in meetings, engage in meditation, use "best practices" relating with others, learn conflict resolution skills, observe consensus decision making at meetings and enjoy cultural and local community activities. Workshops scheduled three afternoons each week will include Somatic Bodywork with Hilary Lake; Authentic Relating Games; Permaculture Design; Mushroom Revival with Alex Dorr, Multi-Media Arts; Sacred Geometry; Improv Dance; and many more. Saturday morning you will engage in Joyful Productivity on the grounds of Sirius with community members. Sunday and Monday are open to explore the 90 acres of hiking trails or the vast regional opportunities for outdoor and cultural activities. Room, board, registration, supplies, and workshops are included with the $600 fee to attend for three weeks and earn college credit. Application are available at www.siriuscommunity.org. Please contact Ellen Wolfe for more information 931- 261- 2111 ellenw.sirius@gmail.com. See Us on Facebook @siriuscommunity Clark Organic Farm in in Carlisle, MA. Farm interns are trained in all aspects of sustainable, organic vegetable and livestock production. Please check out the website for more information: www.clarkfarmcarlisle.com See, SFF student Molly Murphy's blog who spent a summer at White Oak Farm and Education Center in in Williams, Oregon! Share the Harvest Farm on the eastern end of Long Island, NY has made its mission to fight food insecurity through farming and education. The internship program is flexible but most desired from May to August, although anyone wishing to stay longer is encouraged to do so. The farm focuses on sustainable organic methods of growing a wide variety of produce throughout the year to supply fresh local produce to donation centers such as Food Pantries, Women's Shelters, Daycare Centers, Housing Authorities, Schools and Senior Centers. We participate in CRAFT tours, local farm policies, Fundraising benefits, and other local resources to create a balanced food structure in our community. Housing is provided along with a weekly stipend and any fresh vegetable you can pick! We are seeking students interested in the farm operation, as well as our donation based farm stand and CSA with focus on nutrition and the community. Interested students may apply through our website at www.sharetheharvestfarm.org/volunteer or email a resume and cover letter to info@sharetheharvestfarm.org Essex Farm in Essex, NY offers an impressive full-diet CSA and you might remember the book that was written about the farm, The Dirty Life by Kristen Kimball. Please see here for additional info. Housing options exist for interns. Owner and farmer Mark Kimball suggests texting his cell phone to inquiry about internships, as they do not have great cell reception at the farm: 518-570-6399. Book and Plow Farm in Amherst, MA is a diversified vegetable & livestock farm. The farm works closely with Amherst College to provide vegetables for the dining hall and educational programming for the students. In addition, the farm supplies wholesale produce to restaurants, food hubs, and other institutions beyond Amherst, as well as a CSA share geared towards the academic calendar. Laughing Dog Farm in Gill, MA consists of 3+ acres of raised beds, greenhouses, inter-planted perennials, vegetables, flowers, herbs, fruit and nut trees, as well as a small herd of delightful, multi-purpose, dairy goats. Boston Area Gleaners in Boston, MA (a non-profit dedicated to rescuing surplus farm crops for people in need) is interested in having interns for the summer and fall months. Please email Matthew Crawford for more info: matt@bostonareagleaners.com Nourse Farm in Westborough MA (Worcester County), is offering a 40-hour-a-week hybrid internship (half credit/half pay) for a returning or graduating student interested all aspects of a family farm business. Nourse Farm is one of the oldest farms in the state, and since 1722 has been a family-owned and operated business, making us the 8th oldest continuously running business in America. The farm business consists of a retail farm store, a 250-member CSA program, pick-your-own fruit crops, farmers markets, value-added products produced in the farm kitchen, jams and pies, and wholesale to a local Boston supplier. The 140-acre farm utilizes integrated pest management on forty acres of crop production. Aherd of beef cattle graze the pasture land. The internship will run from May 15-Sept. 1, unless a graduating student is interested in continuing through the end of November. The intern will have training and practice in the following areas: CSA preparation and pickup, store display, field work including greenhouse and transplanting, value-added product production, customer services working with clientele and products, social media promotion, attendee/cashier/greeter: farm store, farmers markets, PYO and CSA. In addition, the farm owner and the resident dietician will meet 1:1 with the intern monthly to offer educational and practical advice in running a diverse farm that services the local community. Nourse Farm, Westborough is located ~15 minutes east of Worcester and ~40 minutes west of Boston. The MBTA commuter rail stop in Grafton at Tufts Veterinary School is 1 mile from the farm. For further information and to apply by way of a Letter of Interest, please e-mail our registered dietician: catherine@noursefarm.com. Small Ones Farm is 63-acre family-owned farm in South Amherst, MA. They grow tree fruit (peaches, Asian pears, plums, and over 50 varieties of apples), raspberries, melons, pumpkins and garlic. They also press their our own apple cider, make their own apple cider vinegar, and sell pies made with their fruit. They use natural growing methods (holistic and certified through the Certified Naturally Grown program). Primary sales outlets are our fruit CSA and an on-farm farm stand. Livestock includes a flock of laying hens, and a barn cat. For internship info please see here. Summer farm internship runs from June through August (10-12 hours/week). Fall internship runs from the end of August through November(12 hours/week). A $200 stipend is available for each internship. The Nourishing the North Shore (NNS) Intern in Newburyport, MA has the opportunity to be part of a community-based food justice organization. The position will focus on the Pitch In and VEGOUT Mobile Market programs. The Pitch In program is a youth-led project designed to be a link, matching the needs and resources of local farmers to the community. The VEGOUT Mobile Market is a program that connects excess produce to low and middle-income families in a dignified manner - hosting 2 "farmstand style" produce stands at local food pantries per week. The NNS Intern will also have the opportunity to assist with other NNS programs and daily farm duties. HOW TO APPLY: Visit www.nourishingthenorthshore.org/apply/. Fill out the form. Send resume and cover letter to: NourishingtheNorthShore@gmail.com Expect confirmation within 3 business days, when all parts of the application have been received. APPLICATION DUE DATE: FEBRUARY 28TH, 2018 Since 1982, The Food Bank of Western Massachusetts based in Hatfield, MA has been feeding our neighbors in need and leading the community to end hunger. They distribute food to member agencies in Berkshire, Franklin, Hampden and Hampshire counties. These independent pantries, meal sites and shelters are on the front lines of emergency food assistance in our region, playing a crucial role helping individuals, families, seniors and children. There is a lot of opportunity locally at the Amherst, MA town-owned land, Fort River Farm. In addition to a Sharing Garden, there is quite a bit of land that will be utilized as an incubator farm for a few interested growers. Please see here for more info and contact Renee Ciulla at rciulla@umass.edu for more info, or Stephanie Ciccarello, Amherst Sustainability Coordinator, at CiccarelloS@amherstma.gov. Simple Gifts Farm in Amerst, MA (walking distance from campus!) grows organic vegetables in addition to raising chickens, cattle and pigs. Green River Farms in Williamstown, MA welcomes student interns interested in learning all aspects of maintaining their 5,000 apple trees, 1,500 blueberry bushes, hydroponic greenhouse as well as one or two conventional greenhouses, and possibly bringing farm animals back to a dormant petting farm. $10/hour. Best to always have work gloves, safety glasses, work boots, and sun protection. Please contact Lucy at: lucy@greenriverfarms.com Abundance Farm is a Jewish food justice farm and outdoor classroom located in Northampton, Massachusetts. Abundance Farm is a unique collaboration at Congregation B'nai Israel with the Northampton Survival Center and Lander-Grinspoon Academy to support local food security and to create a unique, outdoor learning environment. Abundance Farm is a beautiful urban oasis where people of all ages, faiths, and backgrounds are drawn for nourishment, community, and learning. Abundance Farm is offering four internships for college credit this season: Vegetable Production, Permaculture Orchard Design, Pick-Your-Own Facilitator, and Summer Educator. Visit their website for more details about the internship possibilities. Broadfork Permaculture, based in Montague Center, MA is a permaculture-based landscaping business. We build edible and ecological landscapes, including fruit/nut orchards, annual vegetable beds, pollinator gardens, rain gardens, and more. In this internship, you will build installation skills, develop design thinking, and learn how to work with client goals. Our spring internship runs April 1st - May 15th; summer internship May 15th - July 15th; and fall internship Sep 1st - Nov 15th. For more information, please email: broadfork.permaculture@gmail.com or visit our website at www.broadforkpermaculture.com. Orchard Hill Breadworks in East Alstead, NH is a bakery, farm and orchard that makes high-quality, wood-fired, organic sourdough breads. Please see here for their internships. Meeting Place Pastures is a 700 acre grass based livestock operation in Cornwall, VT. The focus is on finishing 100% grass fed beef and lamb on Certified Organic pastures along with producing Certified Organic eggs for regional markets while at the same time providing land based ecological services in capturing solar energy, carbon sequestration and water retention through the building of healthy soils. Seeking Full Time Farm Crew Assistant who is interested in making sustainable and regenerative agriculture part of their future The main responsibilities of this position would be to support all aspects of grazing for the beef and sheep herds as well as the daily chores involved with the pastured laying hens. Employee will assist in the chores related to the daily movement of animals, as all herds/flocks move one to three times daily. This includes fence work, water system work, pasture scouting, pasture recovery monitoring, as well animal husbandry and handling skills. Additional tasks are to assist with breeding, calving, veterinary and weighing of animals. Some equipment and machinery operation will be required as well. Employees will also be involved in various aspects of marketing and on farm events. At times this position would be tasked with overseeing multiple summer interns on projects. Hourly rate is competitive and livable. Worker’s Compensation insurance is also provided. Hours are 40-45 a week. Employee must work 2 weekends a month with weekend hours limited to basic livestock chores of no more than 4 hours per weekend day. Weekend hours will be compensated by time off during the respective week. The ability to commit to at least a 9 month work arrangement will be given preference. Please contact us marc@... or cheryl@meetingplacepastures.com Stout Oak Farm in Brentwood, NH grows 5-acres of certified organic vegetables for a farm store, CSA shares, farmers’ markets, and wholesale accounts. The vegetables are delivered to local restaurants through Three River Farmers Alliance, a farmer-owned distribution service. Gallatin Valley Botanical is a certified organic farm in Bozeman, Montana, cultivating around 12 acres of vegetables, herbs, and small fruits. They believe diversity is crucial to their success, both in crop planning and in marketing. They grow up to 150 varieties of produce and market them to a 180-person CSA, twelve restaurants, the Community Food Coop, and two summer and one winter farmers markets in Bozeman. For those of you interested in beekeeping...internships are offered with Best Bees located in Boston and throughout New England. The Massachusetts Department of Agricultural Resources (MDAR) Apiary Inspection Program Team is seeking two (2) undergraduate student interns for summer employment. The internship will consist of collecting samples and summarizing results for the USDA Honey Bee Survey throughout the state of MA as well as assisting in the management of the State Apiary located at the UMass Agricultural Learning Center Farm. Students will be responsible for performing the following duties consisting of, but not limited to: handling live honey bees/hives, lifting hive equipment, sampling honey bee hives for pests, parasites and pathogens, performing hive health evaluations, recording/summarizing data and any other tasks necessary for apiary management. Students will be provided training, personnel protection equipment and all supplies needed to perform these tasks. Students will be compensated at a rate of $12/hr for a maximum of 288 hours per person. Internships will run from May-August 2017 and weekly schedules can be flexible depending on the availability of the students. Honey bee samples will be collected in the field from apiaries located throughout Massachusetts so willingness and ability to travel/provide transportation is required. Mileage will be reimbursed at a rate of $0.45/mile for a maximum of 2,798 miles. Students may also receive course credit for their work based on prior arrangements made with UMass. Preference will be given to individuals that are planning to take courses during Fall 2017, given the desire to have students continue working with MDAR for academic credit(s) by managing the State Apiary and extracting honey. Please contact Kim Skyrm: email: Kim.Skyrm@state.ma.us or Call: 413-548-1905 EvanLEE Organics, LLC in Feeding Hills, MA is the New England Distributor for 24:45 Organics. Our patented Super Grow System allows year-round sustainability in an indoor climate controlled environment. We use a primitive soil system which is comparable to what the earth had hundreds of years ago. Our Super Grow System produces optimal yields of the most nutrient dense produce at harvest time. 24:45 Organics is committed to helping to rebuild the American economy by bringing food production back into the local community. Our Super Grow Systems are currently located in schools, colleges, institutions, nursing homes, correctional facilities, prisons, and Veterans' homes. Students of all ages and needs enjoy working with our technology along with the elderly, handicapped, homeless veterans and homemakers! Keep an eye out for our next venture where we look to build a 100,000+ square foot indoor commercial grow operation! ** This internship is flexible, we are open to working remotely and to part time interns! We ask for a 10 week commitment with 35 hours a week for those full time. Prior marketing and social media experience is strongly preferred. ** As an intern, you will be instrumental in developing a business marketing campaign that will help obtain clients in the larger Grocery/Supermarket Industry. You will be creating presentations and documents that can be tailored to specific clients in order to establish our presence and reputation in the industry. Strong social media experience is preferred. Our goal is to provide you with invaluable insight, experience, and relationships for your personal and professional growth. This is an internship program, however, we hope to continue our relationship into full time future employment. If you are interested please contact Leisl Bard at lbard@evanleeorganics.com And if you're interested in soil & plant tissue and the associated tests that are conducted at the UMass Soil and Plant Tissue Testing Lab...Tracey Allen would love interns especially in the summer and starting middle of March. You can email her at: soiltest@umass.edu. This is a great opportunity and is conveniently located right on UMass Amherst campus in the basement of Paige Hall. Interested in raw milk, making icecream and managing a small dairy herd? Bruce Jenks at Maple Valley Creamery in Hadley, MA is interested in interns! To contact him, please email: bruce@maplevalleycreamery.com Nuestras Raíces is a grassroots urban agriculture organization based in Holyoke MA. There mission is to create healthy environments, celebrate “agri-culture,” harness our collective energy, and to advance our vision of a just and sustainable future. Please see here for volunteer opprtunities! Several opportunities exist at the non-profit, Northeast Organic Farmers and Gardeners Association in Massachusetts. Please email Allison Houghton at: ahoughton@nofamass.org Earth Matters Farm in Ka’u Hawaii farms organically on 3 acres. Stockbridge students have had exceptional experiences WWOOFing here and the owner Greg is an avid and knowledgable industrial hemo grower. Big Island Farms, Big island Table Experience (BITE), and World Sacred Gardens would like to invite you to join an upcoming Hawaii internship programs, on their organic permaculture farm. Big Island Farms is located on the tropical Hamakua coast of Hawaii's Big Island, five miles from the breathtaking Waipio Valley and historic Honokaa Town. Through this interdisciplinary education model, which incorporates classes, tangible hands on experience, field trips and guest speakers, students will actively pursue their passions, learn to broaden their world views, and work towards a more sustainable lifestyle. Check out the website www.kawaiikalia.com to see full program details and email at: info@bigislandfarms.world for details. Malama Kauai is a farming/education non-profit on Kauai, Hawaii, whose Director of Operations is from Massachusetts and very interested in connecting with UMass: www.malamakauai.org/mk/about-mk-2/jobs-volunteer SPRING BREAK in Kauai, Hawaii! UMass students are able to receive 2 credits for attending this independent study. During the retreat students will be working in 5 different gardens and landscapes over the course of 8 days, including the most productive organic farm on Kauai, a community food garden, a taro lo'i (patch) and doing ecological restoration work as well. Students will also be practicing self awareness skills, eating fresh local foods, and visiting stunningly beautiful and powerful sites. The following links provide more information: Website: http://www.localharmony.org/kauai-work-retreat Facebook: www.facebook.com/kaui.work.retreat Calypso Farm and Ecology Center in Fairbanks, Alaska is accepting applications for our immersive, interdisciplinary 5-month Farmer Training Program and Two Week Farming Intensive. Gain the farm production skills necessary for farming success: building healthy soil, greenhouse growing, irrigation, composting, animal husbandry, field planning, cultivation, harvest, CSA operations, farm infrastructure, farm equipment use, and using your working body safely. Weekly Whole Farm Planning sessions lead you through the process of building a comprehensive business plan for a future farm, from choosing land and areas of production to marketing and creating a budget. Build creativity and homesteading skills through exposure to green wood carving, birch bark, food preservation, blacksmithing, wool processing, construction, printmaking, and more. For full program information and application guidelines please visit: http://www.calypsofarm.org/farmertrainingprogram Green Meadows Farm in South Hamilton, MA farms organic vegetables on over 10 acres, raise pigs, sheep and chickens, offers a 400-member CSA and several events throughout the year. The farm is steeped in rich history and plan to begin offering educational opportunities, jobs and housing for veterans. Please contact Heidi (email: admin@gmfarm.com) or Michael (shevack@pattonalliance.org) with inquiries. Vets and Veggies in Athol, MA offers housing to veterans that are interested in learning how to become a sustainable farmer. Through a small scale sustainable farming operation veterans will be guided through the process of planning crops, planting, integrated pest management, and proper harvesting techniques. Veterans will work together and create a local food systems for the residents in the community. Please contact Jake at the following email: JakeAlexander@vetsandveggies.com Spannocchia Foundation, Tuscany, Italy. The Farm Internship Program at Spannocchia is a hands-on learning experience during which interns work alongside an Italian farm staff to help run a diversified organic farm in rural Tuscany. This experience is an introduction to the various themes of Spannocchia including farming, agricultural tourism, sustainability, community living and Tuscan culture. Each week consists of 30+ hours of manual labor complimented by bi-weekly Italian language instruction, educational presentations, and bi-monthly fieldtrips to surrounding areas of interest. Independent travel and exploration of the surrounding regions of Italy is highly encouraged to provide an even broader experience to participants. Gustolab International Institute for Food Studies is the first academic center for food and culture studies in Italy, and partners with UMass Amherst. Please explore the multitude of courses and programs offered in Italy throghout the year! Ecothropic: Offering this year's learning-journey courses to Chiapas, Mexiso and Baracoa, Cuba The Farm des Quatre-Temps in Hemmingford, QC, Canada run by Jean-Martin Fortier. Internships are for serious future farmers who are offered the opportunity to work with Jean-Martin who started and runs Les Jardins de la Grelinette in Saint-Armand, QC, Canada. This is one of the best examples of a profitable, and time-and-energy-efficient market garden enterprise. Chile: Ecoescuela El Manzano: http://www.elmanzano.org/ Project Alba is a social enterprise located in Cambodia that works with traditionally small rice farmers and assisting them in the transition to sustainable vegetable production. Our staff is a diverse group, with representatives from Cambodia, India, France, England, and the United States. We are seeking interested students and alumni to fill internship positions within the Research and Development division of the company. The work is diverse and can be tailored to the expertise and interests of interns. Internships can range between 3 months and 1 year. Topics that will be covered in this position are: irrigation technology, sustainable cropping systems, new cultivar trials and selection, insect and disease identification and management, IPM practices, composting, soil nutrition, and Extension curriculum development. Interns work closely with managing staff, local farmers, and field agents. Knowledge of Khmer is not needed. Airfare is provided with all internship lengths, and a living stipend is supplied to interns staying for 4+ months. Stipends are variable based on experience and education. For more information about Project Alba internships or to apply, please email: Kate Fiedler, R&D Manager (kathryn.fiedler@project-alba.com) ========================================== For information on how to register for an internship as a Sustainable Food and Farming student, see: https://sustfoodfarm.org/internship/ For more internships: And.... Fill out our contact form or call one of our advisors at 413-545-2222 to ask your questions, schedule a tour, or get more information! ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact 