Apply & Audition: Music or Dance Interested in joining the Music or Dance program? Find out more about our degree offerings and audition process. Apply & Audition: Music or Dance Interested in joining the Music or Dance program? Find out more about our degree offerings and audition process. Don't miss Multiband Pops, Oct. 18! Our fast-paced showcase of many of our music & dance ensembles, plus the Minuteman Marching Band! Buy Tickets Don't miss Multiband Pops, Oct. 18! Our fast-paced showcase of many of our music & dance ensembles, plus the Minuteman Marching Band! Buy Tickets Music at UMass The Music Program provides over 200 performance and concert opportunities, many instrumental and vocal ensembles, and student solo and studio recital series. More.. Music at UMass The Music Program provides over 200 performance and concert opportunities, many instrumental and vocal ensembles, and student solo and studio recital series. More.. Dance at UMass We seek to prepare students in both the technical & theoretical aspects of dance. The Dance Program offers BFA & BA degree tracks, and places equal emphasis on the idioms of ballet, modern dance, and jazz. More.. Dance at UMass We seek to prepare students in both the technical & theoretical aspects of dance. The Dance Program offers BFA & BA degree tracks, and places equal emphasis on the idioms of ballet, modern dance, and jazz. More.. News August 23, 2019  The first book by Marianna Ritchey, Assistant Professor of Music History, has just been published by the University of Chicago Press. Composing Capital: Classical Music in the Neoliberal Era explores how classical music has increasingly lent its cachet to marketing schemes, tech firm-sponsored performances, and global corporate partnerships.  August 23, 2019  Lisa J. Lehmberg, Associate Professor of Music Education at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, has been selected as the Distinguished Arts Education Advocate in Music by Arts|Learning, one of the state’s most prominent arts advocacy groups.  Events Totman Performance Lab (Totman 202) 1:00 pm to 4:00 pm Bezanson Recital Hall 7:30 pm Bezanson Recital Hall 7:30 pm Bezanson Recital Hall 10:00 am to 1:30 pm More info on Senior Choreography Project auditions > Faculty Position openings: Ass't Prof, Studio Bassoon Ass't Prof, Music Theory Multiband Pops! Fri 10/18, 7:30pm; buy tix School groups email contact Sign up to receive our Upcoming Events emails (2-3 times per month) Voice Area Open House Sat, Oct. 5, for HS vocalists & families Student Resources / Faculty Resources Find them in the Footer Menu & Useful Links Tues AM - Wed PM Student Recital sign-up Music & Dance Music & Dance 273E Fine Arts Center 151 Presidents Drive Amherst, MA 01003 (413) 545-2227 musicoffice@music.umass.edu