Jump to navigation The Isenberg On-Campus MBA option is ideal for individuals who seek a hands-on, real world education through immersion in a rigorous two-year program. The residential program is intentionally small so we can give our students the attention they deserve. Need assistance with this form? Need assistance with this form? Someone will be in touch with you within 48 hours. We know you're motivated. We'll coach you to become a creative problem-solver, level-headed decision maker, and resilient leader. We'll ask you to bring bold ideas to the table. You’ll develop your analytical muscle to tackle today’s biggest challenges and harness the most exciting opportunities. Find out more about why the program might be right for you.   Every On-Campus MBA student is awarded a two-year Isenberg MBA Fellowship that fully funds your degree. The fellowship includes full tuition, an annual stipend, and health insurance. In return, MBA Fellows get valuable hands-on experience and marketable skills while working on strategic initiatives for the school. Learn more. Collaboration is part of our DNA. We'll train you to be an effective team player. Our small class sizes give you one-on-one mentorship from our world-renowned faculty. And your student peers offer support that lasts for years after you graduate from Isenberg. Focus Areas equip you with the knowledge and skills in a specific area of interest to propel you into the MBA-level job you desire upon graduation. Customize your education with an additional set of elective coursework to support a chosen career or industry. View All Focus Areas  This focus offers a mix of general business and analytic elective courses to meet your specific educational goals. Business analytics is a crucial tool to guide business operations towards achieving strategic objectives in any industry, from healthcare to finance and retail.   The Isenberg MBA with a Focus in Entrepreneurship offers a mix of electives courses in general business and entrepreneurship. This degree is ideal for individuals interested in launching a business, leading a unit within a larger enterprise, or in revitalizing an established organization.   The MBA with a Focus in Finance is ideal for individuals interested in a career in investment banking, corporate finance, venture capital, or consulting. The degree offers a mix of general business and finance elective courses to meet your specific educational goals.   In partnership with the UMass School of Public Health, the Isenberg MBA with a Focus in Healthcare Administration is ideal for healthcare professionals seeking a promotion in the industry, or looking to transition into the rapidly growing field of healthcare administration.   The MBA with a Focus in Marketing provides the skills and business knowledge that are necessary to successfully understand the changing global economy, anticipate consumer needs, translate those needs into products and services, and create marketing campaigns.  Our program is intentionally small so we can give our On-Campus MBA students the attention they deserve. All resources are tailored to helping our students meet their goals. Incoming students kick off their MBA program with a three-day Leadership Orientation Session. We affectionately call this "MBA bootcamp" because students are put through their paces on presentation skills, resume writing, and team-building exercises so they can start networking and career development from day one. The session culminates in a panel of senior Isenberg alumni executives speaking about career paths. From our alumni panel, students gain invaluable lessons in mobility, adaptation and resilience through conversations about networking, team building, management styles and leadership. MBA Fellows are not ordinary graduate assistants; they leverage their individual strengths to gain experiential, real-world work experience through the program. If you're selected as an On-Campus MBA student at Isenberg, we'll award you a two-year Isenberg MBA Fellowship that fully funds your degree. In return, MBA Fellows get valuable hands-on experience and marketable skills while working on real business problems and strategic initiatives for the school. Our MBA Fellows bring bold ideas to the table and are resilient leaders and effective team players. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.