For Concert Hall events, and other events in the Fine Arts Center building, free and secure parking is available on Massachusetts Avenue in University Lots 32, 34, and 71 after 5:00pm and all day on weekends. Accessible parking is available in the South Entrance Lot in front of the Fine Arts Center building when the appropriate license plate or placard is displayed. Please note: the Visitors Center parking lot and all meters near the Fine Arts Center are pay-to-park from 7:00am to 7:00pm. For more information on parking options near the Fine Arts Center, please visit the UMass interactive parking map. For Bowker Auditorium events, parking is available in the Campus Center Parking Garage for $1 with remittance of your ticket stub. Accessible parking is available in the Campus Center Parking Garage at the base of the ramp at the right rear entrance when the appropriate license plate or placard is displayed. Free and secure parking is also available on Holdsworth Way in University Lots 65 and 45 behind Stockbridge Hall. Additional accessible parking spots are available in Lot 65 near the back right of Stockbridge Hall closest to the accessible entrance ramp. Please note: all meters near Bowker Auditorium are pay-to-park from 7:00am to 7:00pm. For more information on parking options near Bowker Auditorium, please visit the UMass interactive parking map. Please note that there is another building adjacent to Lot 65 called the Stockbridge School of Agriculture – this is NOT the correct building. The performance is in Stockbridge Hall, which is the building to the right of the parking area, or south of the parking lot and closer to the Campus Center parking garage. For University Museum of Contemporary Art exhibits, parking is available in the Robsham Visitors Center, around Presidents Drive, or in the Lincoln Campus Center Parking Garage. For patrons with disabilities, the University Museum of Contemporary Art is wheelchair accessible from its north, pond-level entrance where handicapped parking is available. An access-parking permit must be visible to parking attendants. For Augusta Savage Gallery, metered parking is available in front of New Africa House, where Augusta Savage Gallery is located, and across the street from Wheeler House. For Hampden Gallery, parking is available at meters around the horseshoe parking area off University Drive. (click here for campus map) From I-91 S take exit 24 for US-5/10 toward Whately/Deerfield. Turn left onto MA-10 N/US-5 N/ State Rd, at the traffic light turn right onto MA-116 S/Sunderland Rd. Continue following 116 S until you reach the exit for UMass. Take the exit and turn left at the end of the off ramp onto N Hadley Rd. Once you are on campus: For the Fine Arts Center (and Bezanson Recital Hall and the University Museum of Contemporary Art), go straight. The FAC building will be on the left roughly 1/2 mile up the road from the exit. Parking will be to your right. For Bowker Auditorium, turn left at the traffic light after the blinking yellow light. To park in the Campus Center Parking Garage, turn right at the first traffic light. To park in Lot 65, turn right at the second traffic light. Follow this road until Lot 65 is on your left. For Hampden Gallery, turn right at the blinking yellow light. Turn left on the second road and park anywhere around the horseshoe parking area. Hampden is located at the top of the hill. For Augusta Savage Gallery, go straight. At the traffic light roughly 1 mile up the road, go left onto North Pleasant St. Take your first right onto Thatcher Way. Follow the road up to the Health Services building, and turn right onto Infirmary way. Click for parking information Campus Map From I0-91 N take exit 19. Go right to merge onto MA-9 E/Bridge St/ State Route 9 E. Follow Rt 9 for about 5 miles. Turn left onto MA-116 N/Westgate Center Dr (across from the Howard Johnsons' Motel), get off of 116 N at the UMass exit about 1 mile up the road. Turn right at the end of the off ramp onto N Hadley Rd. Once you are on campus: For the Fine Arts Center (Concert Hall, Bezanson Recital Hall and the University Museum of Contemporary Art), go straight. The FAC building will be on the left roughly 1/2 mile up the road from the exit. Parking will be to your right. For Bowker Auditorium, turn left at the traffic light after the blinking yellow light. To park in the Campus Center Parking Garage, turn right at the first traffic light. To park in Lot 65, turn right at the second traffic light. Follow this road until Lot 65 is on your left. For Hampden Gallery, turn right at the blinking yellow light. Turn left on the second road and park anywhere around the horseshoe parking area. Hampden is located at the top of the hill. For Augusta Savage Gallery, go straight. At the traffic light roughly 1 mile up the road, go left onto North Pleasant St. Take your first right onto Thatcher Way. Follow the road up to the Health Services building, and turn right onto Infirmary way. Click for parking information Campus Map (Google Maps) Go north on Routes 21, 181, or 202 to MA-9 W/Federal St. Follow Route 9 for about 8 miles. Bear right just after you pass a Sunoco station with a Cumberland Farms across the street from it. Turn right onto S East St. At the traffic light turn left onto Main St. At the next traffic light, turn right onto Triangle St. Go straight at the next traffic light (Bertucci's Resaurant will be on your right) onto North Pleasant St. Follow North Pleasant St for about 0.2 miles. Once you are on campus: For the Fine Arts Center (Concert Hall, Bezanson Recital Hall and the University Museum of Contemporary Art), go straight, the building will be on the right about 0.2 miles down the road. For Bowker Auditorium, go straight, turn right at the traffic light roughly 1 mile down the road. To park in the Campus Center Parking Garage, turn right at the first traffic light. To park in Lot 65, turn right at the second traffic light. Follow this road until Lot 65 is on your left. For Augusta Savage Gallery, go right at the traffic light to follow North Pleasant St. Take your first right onto Thatcher Way. Follow the road up to the Health Services building, and turn right onto Infirmary way. For Hampden Gallery, go straight. Stay in the left lane, go straight at the traffic light about 1 mile down the road. Turn left at the blinking red light, turn left on the second road. Hampden is located at the top of the hill. Click for parking information Campus Map (Google Maps) From MA-2 W take exit 16. Go right at the end of the off ramp to merge onto US-202 S/Daniel Shays Hwy toward Amherst/Belchertown. At the blinking yellow light with a sign for Routes 9 and 116, turn right onto Amherst Rd. Roughly 5 miles down the road go straight at the traffic light onto Main St. At the next traffic light, turn right onto Triangle St. Go straight at the next traffic light (Bertucci's Resaurant will be on your right) onto Noth Pleasant St. Follow North Pleasant St for about 0.2 miles. Once you are on campus: For the Fine Arts Center (Concert Hall, Bezanson Recital Hall and the University Museum of Contemporary Art), go straight, the building will be on the right about 0.2 miles down the road. For Bowker Auditorium, go straight, turn right at the traffic light roughly 1 mile down the road. To park in the Campus Center Parking Garage, turn right at the first traffic light. To park in Lot 65, turn right at the second traffic light. Follow this road until Lot 65 is on your left. For Augusta Savage Gallery, go right at the traffic light to follow North Pleasant St. Take your first right onto Thatcher Way. Follow the road up to the Health Services building, and turn right onto Infirmary way. For Hampden Gallery, go straight. Stay in the left lane, go straight at the traffic light about 1 mile down the road. Turn left at the blinking red light, turn left on the second road. Hampden is located at the top of the hill. Click for parking information Campus Map (Fine Arts Center) 151 Presidents Drive, Amherst, MA. 01003 (New Africa House) 180 Infirmary Way, Amherst, MA 01003 Hampden Dining Commons 131 Southwest Circle, Amherst, MA 01003 (Fine Arts Center) 151 Presidents Drive, Amherst, MA. 01003 © 2018 University of Massachusetts Amherst Site Policies Site Contact