Wonderful food, atmosphere and staff. One of the best meals I have ever had. Well worth the 5 hour round trip. Menu changes daily Food is wonderful very creative combinations always a great taste no matter what you order however it is a limited menu but great choices. Would absolutely recommend you to try it My husband and I just moved here in New Bern from San Diego California. We are accustomed to a very high end restaurant. We have date night on Friday or Saturday. Yesterday September 6, We've decided to check out Chef and the farmer recommended by our real estate agent. I made a reservation for 5pm and I was told that table are fully booked that they only have the bar but when we got there I asked if we can sit in the table because the bar is too hot. They are very nice to... accommodate us. Amanda was very helpful and informative about the menu. The menu were very limited but everything we ordered are delicious and flavorful. The flash Collard must try when you eat here I can probably eat 3 order it was delish.I was very impressed with atmosphere. We will definitely go back again for a date night. Next date night we are going to try the Boiler room. Definitely will recommend to our friends. I hope next time there are more selections of menu for the main course. I preferred whole fish.9/6/18 Glad we went, but too loud, wait staff moving around quickly was distracting, and annoying, waiter who poured water spilled it at each of our settings which made for a messy table. Menu was interesting, but trying too hard to be wildly unique. The fried collards were surprisingly good and I’m glad the server said to eat them like chips otherwise I wouldn’t have tried them. Again too loud so did not need background music. Great decor and lovely women’s restroom and very clean. The folks working here really hustle, while appearing to enjoy it all! I wish more restaurants had staff with the drive, effort, execution, manners, professionalism, and sense like those providing service at Chef and the Farmer. The food was great, no surprise there! I had no doubt about how amazing the quality and flavor of every bite would be. The small plate that really got me was the Compressed Zucchini with some strands of fried okra, cucumber yogurt, and mint. (I now wa...nt to eat that perfect ensemble every day.) I especially appreciated the allergy friendly atmosphere without any negative vibes. Also, everything was very clean. I look at as much as I can, from fans and doorknobs to ventilation and bathrooms. It's not often that I have a perfect evening with regards to cleanliness in a restaurant! Additionally, it was nice to see the plates being wiped with individual cotton pads instead of a dishcloth. Little touches and intelligent attention to detail like that are a big deal to me. Vivian Howard, you and your team are top notch. Bravo and thank you for a lovely experience.