NCSBN provides several online websites and applications for its members, nurses, nursing candidates and nursing faculty. Many websites are accessible by members only. Members control the access that their board members and staff have to most NCSBN websites through NCSBN Passport. The Passport Admin is the person at an NCSBN member that is responsible for granting and managing permissions for all staff and board members. Members may contact their Passport Admin to request access to applications.  NCSBN Passport user ID required to access these websites.  The purpose of the Commitment to Ongoing Regulatory Excellence (CORE) project is to provide an ongoing performance measurement system for nursing regulators. CORE utilizes data collected periodically from nursing regulatory bodies and stakeholders and identifies best practices in the provision of regulatory services.  Access & Details Access: ncsbn.org/core (Members only) Details: About CORE Contact: coreinfo@ncsbn.org FITS is a private tool for nursing regulatory bodies (NRBs) to share information with other NRBs about imposter and/or fraudulent nurses. Access & Details Access: fits.ncsbn.org (members only) Details: About FITS Contact: fits@ncsbn.org Hive provides a space for collaboration and knowledge sharing for NCSBN knowledge networks and committees. Access & Details Access: hive.ncsbn.org (members only) Contact: interactive@ncsbn.org NCSBN's official journal, the Journal of Nursing Regulation, is dedicated to advancing regulatory excellence for the public’s protection and providing a worldwide forum for sharing research, evidence-based practice, and innovative strategies and solutions related to nursing regulation and practice, with the ultimate goal of safeguarding the public. Access & Details Access: Contact: policyandgovernmentrelations@ncsbn.org NCSBN collects information from its U.S. members using the Member Board Profiles tool. NCSBN publicly publishes results, providing an overview of the regulatory environment in which U.S. members operate. Access & Details Access: mbprofiles.ncsbn.org (members only) Details: Contact: research@ncsbn.org The NCLEX Administration Website is a secure, centralized location for nursing regulatory bodies to view and update candidate records, set eligibility statuses and enter accommodations requests. Access & Details Access: pearsonvue.com/nclexmemberboard (members only) Contact: nclexinfo@ncsbn.org NCSBN Learning Extension for Members is the online course campus exclusively for NCSBN members. E-learning offerings include free access to NCSBN courses that help build regulatory competencies of our members. There is also free access to NCSBN Learning Extension courses, prep courses for nursing students and continuing education courses for nurses and nursing faculty. Access & Details Access: courses.ncsbn.org (members only) Details: About NCSBN Learning Extension for Members Contact: interactive@ncsbn.org NCSBN's main website is ncsbn.org. Look in the For Member Boards section for regulatory tools and resources. Access & Details Access: ncsbn.org (members log in for private content) Contact: helpdesk@ncsbn.org Nursys is a comprehensive electronic information system that collects and stores a nurse's personal information, licensing information, disciplinary information and license verifications. Access & Details Access: nursys.org (members only) Details: About nursys.org for members Access: nursys.com (public) Details: About nursys.com for the public Contact: nursys@ncsbn.org The Web Survey Tool provides members the ability to survey other nursing regulatory bodies on topics relevant to their knowledge network. Survey groups include: Access & Details Access: surveys.ncsbn.org (members only) Contact: memberrelations@ncsbn.org TERCAP was developed to track elements of nursing practice breakdown. Authorized case reviewers from participating boards enter relevant information relating to practice breakdown cases. Access & Details Access: tercap.ncsbn.org (members only) Details: Contact: tercapinfo@ncsbn.org  NCSBN Passport user ID access is not available for these websites.  The INRC website is supported by NCSBN and provides an organized space for member and nonmember organizations to find contact information, browse resources news items related to nursing licensure and regulations, and read more about INRC’s mission and foundation. Access & Details Access: inrc.com Contact: inrc-info@ncsbn.org The National Practitioner Data Bank (NPDB) was created to combat fraud and abuse in health insurance and health care delivery. NCSBN serves as the NPDB reporting and querying agent for many boards of nursing. The exchange of discipline information is facilitated by Nursys, a larger and more extensive licensure and discipline database for nursing. Previous to May 6, 2013, there were two federal databanks – National Practitioner Data Bank (NPDB) and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank (HIPDB). On May 6, 2013, NPDB and HIPDB merged into one database, now referred to as NPDB. Access & Details Access: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Details: Contact: discipline@ncsbn.org NCSBN Learning Extension offers a variety of courses on discipline and professional conduct. Access & Details Access: learningext.com (public) Details: About NCSBN Learning Extension Contact: interactive@ncsbn.org These applications developed by NCSBN simplifies electronic distribution of member meeting materials. The NCSBN Mailing Application for Administrators (NMAA) and the NCSBN Board Mailing Application (NBMA) for desktop are free for member use. NCSBN has used this software internally to provide access to board materials for its board of directors (BOD) and staff since 2009. Members can now utilize these applications to electronically distribute their board and committee materials in the same manner. Access & Details Access: granted after signed contract with NCSBN Details: NCSBN Mailing Applications for Meeting Materials Contact: Nur Rajwany, Chief Information Officer The NursingAmerica campaign is raising awareness of APRNs and advocating for legislation across the country. Access & Details Access: nursingamerica.org Contact: nursingamerica@ncsbn.org The Optimal Regulatory Board System (ORBS) is a new solution for license management and discipline enforcement. Access & Details Access: Granted after signed contract with NCSBN (members only) Details: ORBS Contact: Nur Rajwany, Chief Information Officer Using WebEx, NCSBN staff and members can remotely join meetings and major NCSBN events. Access & Details Access: ncsbn.webex.com Contact: interactive@ncsbn.org ©2019 National Council of State Boards of Nursing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.