With a membership of 60,000 nationwide, the National Student Nurses' Association mentors the professional development of future registered nurses and facilitates their entrance into the profession by providing educational resources, leadership opportunities, and career guidance. For more information, visit the NSNA website.  The UMass Amherst SNA is a chapter of the national organization. All pre-nursing and nursing majors at the University are encouraged to participate actively in SNA. Meetings are usually held bi-weekly throughout the academic year. For more information, contact the 2017-18 SNA president, Keli Carrigan, check out the Facebook group or visit the UMass Amherst SNA website. Sigma Theta Tau International (STTI), Honor Society of Nursing, was founded in 1922 to recognize superior scholarship and leadership in nursing. The Beta Zeta At Large Chapter at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst is committed to serving its growing membership in the development of knowledge, encouragement of professional achievement and the advancement of nursing through research. Membership is available by invitation to undergraduate and graduate nursing students and nursing leaders in the community who demonstrate exceptional achievement in the nursing profession. Visit the Beta Zeta Chapter website for more information. The National Association of Hispanic Nurses® (NAHN) is committed to the promotion of the professionalism and dedication of Hispanic nurses by providing equal access to educational, professional, and economic opportunities for Hispanic nurses. NAHN is also dedicated to the improvement of the quality of health and nursing care of Hispanic consumers. The mission of the Western Massachusetts Chapter of NAHN is to empower Hispanic nurses to improve the health and well-being of individuals, groups, and communities by the use of action-based, culturally sensitive, evidence-based nursing practices. For more information, visit the NAHN Western Massachusetts Chapter website or email NAHN.WMASS@gmail.com. The Western Massachusetts Black Nurses' Association (WMBNA), a chapter of the National Black Nurses Association, was established in 1994. The National Black Nurses Association’s mission is “To represent and provide a forum for black nurses to advocate for and implement strategies to ensure access to the highest quality of healthcare for persons of color.” Membership is open to nurses and student nurses regardless of race, creed, color, national origin, age or gender. For more information, visit the Western Massachusetts Black Nurses Association website or email wmbnurses@gmail.com. The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master’s degree program in nursing and Doctor of Nursing Practice degree program at the University of Massachusetts Amherst College of Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The baccalaureate degree program is fully approved by the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Nursing. The University of Massachusetts Amherst is accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE; formerly the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges).     