Our services use cookies and other similar technologies, such as pixels or local storage, to help provide you with a better, faster, and safer experience. Here are some of the ways that our services, including our various websites, SMS, APIs, email notifications, applications, buttons, widgets, and ads, use these technologies: to log you into Twitter and Periscope, save your preferences, personalize the content you see, protect against spam and abuse, and show you more relevant ads. Below we explain how Twitter, our partners, and other third parties use these technologies, your privacy settings, and the other options you have. Cookies are small files that websites place on your computer as you browse the web. Like many websites, Twitter, Periscope, and our other services use cookies to discover how people are using our services and to make them work better. A pixel is a small amount of code on a web page or in an email notification. As many services do, we use pixels to learn whether you’ve interacted with certain web or email content. This helps us measure and improve our services and personalize your experience. Local storage is an industry-standard technology that allows a website or application to store information locally on your computer or mobile device. We use local storage to customize what we show you based on your past interactions with our services. Our services use these technologies to deliver, measure, and improve our services in various ways. These uses generally fall into one of the following categories: We (along with third parties) use these technologies on our websites, applications, and services and on other websites, applications, and services that have integrated our services, including third-party properties that incorporate our advertising technology. This includes our ad partners’ websites and sites that use our embeds, including embedded timelines. Third parties may also use these technologies, for example, when you click on links from our websites or applications, view or interact with third-party content from within our services, or visit third-party websites that incorporate our advertising technology. We are committed to offering you meaningful privacy choices. You have a number of options to control or limit how we, our partners, and other third parties use cookies: Note: Please confirm that you are logged in if you want to view or change the web settings for your Twitter account. Changing your Twitter settings in your web browser when you are logged out will only affect behavior on that browser while you are not logged in to Twitter. Learn more about how to access your Personalization and data settings, including in your Twitter mobile app. By using Twitter’s services you agree to our Cookies Use. We use cookies for purposes including analytics, personalisation, and ads.