Excellent food and service, my wife and family surprised me for me b-day here! I had a delightful time! Staff and cooks are phenomenal 1st time here and the experience was horrible. Rude Staff....We had 830pm reservations for a party of 12. We was ignored and then after asking questions about our reservations we were told we could be seated till 1030pm. Best part of the night were the gentleman doing the valet service. Thank you for a wonderful birthday... Dallas has so many wonderful restaurants to choose from but, the atmosphere, food, drinks and the staff make Nick and Sams an experience you’ll truly enjoy!! We raise Commercial Angus beef on our ranch in New Mexico so, to say we are picky about our steak is an understatement! My husband had the opportunity to have an Allen Bros Rib eye, a Japanese rib eye, and Australian Japanese cross ribeye and an American Wagu cross ribeye. By far …some of the best pieces of steak he has ever had. The American-Japanese cross rib eye had the best taste to him out of them all. What an experience!! Huge thanks to our server Cole!! He went above and beyond taking care of us!! He was extremely knowledgeable about the cuts of meat and basically gave us a tutorial on their marbling and regions. We will be back next time when we come back to Dallas!!! Our waiter; Luis, made sure to take care of us all night! Lots of food to enjoy from with a nice and energetic ambience. Overall experience was amazing and delicious! Holy moly - I can’t imagine a better restaurant experience than N&S. Samir is a ROCKSTAR! The food is off the charts awesome and the ambiance is legendary.... with different dinner environments to choose from throughout as well! Laid back in the large dining room, or festive in the bar dining area. Always feel like I see a major pro athlete or celebrity every time too. Just so much fun and so incredibly delicious. The staff is amazingly professional and the service is phenomenal. The assortment of perfectly cooked steaks (and I am a major steak snob) will blow your mind, but the sushi is top shelf too!! This is 5 Star dining at its finest. Love love love love love this place!!!!