A finger-licking look at a literal femme fatale: the female cannibal in film. The Dance Theatre of Harlem was the first classical ballet company to focus on black dancers. As images of MP Jacob Rees-Mogg reclining in parliament go viral Art UK look at reclining figures throughout history. What does the size of an action star's biceps say about cinema and society at large? A peek behind the makeup as we find out what makes cinematic clowns so scary. How an unknown filmmaker called M Night Shyamalan redefined the twist ending forever Mary Beard, Germaine Greer, Sathnam Sanghera and Peter Hitchens discuss the art of the memoir. Monty Python moments from the archives, including Terry Gilliam showing how he created the unique animations. The story of Paul Nash, who climbed out of his trench to sketch the battlefields of Flanders near Ypres. Artist Ryan Gander explores Japanese visual culture through symbols including the Geisha, Samurai and cherry blossom. The acclaimed actor portrays the Salford painter in his latest role opposite Vanessa Redgrave in Mrs Lowry & Son. Writing about great women artists featuring Rebecca Morrill Lydia Figes asks: When is an artwork truly finished? Simon Schama discusses his view of William Blake, the visionary printmaker, poet and painter. Harriett Gilbert is in Brussels for a classic World Book Club celebrating the billion-selling author Agatha Christie. Dominic Arkwright charts the life of Thomas Middleton, the bad boy of Renaissance drama. The globe-trotting poetry series returns, with poems told in their original language and in translation. Deborah Frances-White and Marnie Chesterton discuss the politics and science of fertility today. Lindsay Baker rounds up BBC Culture’s top picks, including Three Women, Phantoms and Nickel Boys. Mark D'Arcy talks to novelist and politician Jeffrey Archer about new book Nothing Ventured. The BBC's multi award-winning arts strand The ideas shaping our lives today - with artists and thinkers in debates and interviews Live magazine programme on the worlds of arts, literature, film, media and music The arts series edited and presented by Alan Yentob All of the BBC's coverage of the written word in one place The UK's biggest celebration of creative participation Short films taking you to the heart of the movies Your essential guide to arts on the BBC, via email