Wykryto, ?e obs?uga j?zyka JavaScript jest wy??czona w Twojej przegl?darce. Czy chcesz skorzysta? z wcze?niejszej wersji Twittera? Tak @DonLemon brings you two live hours of the day’s biggest stories. Weekdays at 10pm. Czy na pewno chcesz zobaczy? te Tweety? Zobaczenie Tweetów nie odblokuje @CNNTonight Sports journalist Jemele Hill has sparked backlash over her recent article in The Atlantic arguing that black college athletes should attend historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs) instead of predominantly white institutions.pic.twitter.com/sxPPKGMcOk "The President could really use a full-time national security adviser right now." CNN's @DonLemon points to the global issues President Trump is facing as, sources say, the White House considers tapping Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to be the next national security adviserpic.twitter.com/CWa4WcADDB A woman who used to train Patriots wide receiver Antonio Brown accuses him of rape in a lawsuit. Brown denies the allegations. @jemelehill joins CNN's @DonLemon to discuss. https://cnn.it/2NW1Xy1 pic.twitter.com/mSuSmqfPGq "The President is the master of the insult. ... But at the end of the day, insults and put-downs do not solve problems for people in this country." - 2020 GOP primary challenger Mark Sanford says his strategy to run against President Trump will focus on the "issues that matter."pic.twitter.com/7cBsqj5ohb "We're looking at possible high crimes and misdemeanors of the President. ... We are still in an active investigative mode and there are things to do even short of impeachment in the meantime to counter the lawlessness of this White House." - Rep. Jamie Raskinpic.twitter.com/8qLdd9gpz7 "It's illegal for the President or anybody else to put out a false weather forecast," says former NOAA Administrator D. James Baker. "Congress passed a law in 1894, providing for a fine or imprisonment for anybody who puts out a false weather forecast." https://cnn.it/2LqaKqk pic.twitter.com/rn3Vgn7DuI President Trump's acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, instructed Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross to pressure NOAA to disavow a tweet from NWS Birmingham that contradicted Trump's false claim that Hurricane Dorian was likely to hit Alabama https://cnn.it/2Lqtbv9 pic.twitter.com/zUWCjZrQcL The Supreme Court cleared the way for the Trump administration's rule that dramatically limits the ability of Central American migrants to claim asylum to go into effect nationwide while the appeals process plays out https://cnn.it/2LsSaOm pic.twitter.com/JOZIYBHw76 2020 GOP primary challenger Mark Sanford reacts to President Trump's criticism: "Do I have baggage? Yes. ... We all have baggage. But mine is a carry-on. He needs a private jet to move his stuff around." https://cnn.it/2NWQfDf pic.twitter.com/j9Il6cCvrW The President is the master of the insult. ... But at the end of the day, insults and put-downs do not solve problems for people in this country." - 2020 GOP primary challenger Mark Sanford says his strategy to run against President Trump will focus on the "issues that matter"pic.twitter.com/bmFT5jwUNv Former Vice President Joe Biden continues to lead in the Democratic presidential primary, but the race for second place is tightening, according to the latest CNN poll. Sen. Elizabeth Warren leads Sen. Bernie Sanders by one point. http://cnn.it/34Gh8Bg pic.twitter.com/8OJya98GBk "If the President were to actively do something as it relates to black unemployment numbers, the numbers would be lower. They would be on par with white America." - Journalist @AprilDRyan https://cnn.it/2NVXStI pic.twitter.com/KvL5exb2gb Republican strategist @ananavarro says the GOP will spin Dan Bishop's narrow victory in the special election in North Carolina's 9th Congressional District as a "big win," but points to "warning signs ... they were there in 2018 and they are there now" https://cnn.it/2LpDlfp pic.twitter.com/0wAuQidOQF "If I'm the Republican, I'm real nervous. This is not a competitive seat. Shouldn't even be playing ball here. This should be a layup seat. But they had to spend millions just to hold it by two points." - Former GOP Rep. Charlie Dent on NC special election https://cnn.it/2LpDlfp pic.twitter.com/HKW9gGoaYs "2020 is a reset election, get back to some normalcy," says fmr. Ohio Gov. John Kasich. "You got to be really careful about what your message is. And if your message makes people uncomfortable even though they don't like the President, they might say, 'I don't like any of them.'"pic.twitter.com/3kB6CwRzUU JUST IN: Republican Dan Bishop projected to narrowly win closely watched North Carolina special congressional election https://cnn.it/2UNH4Xl pic.twitter.com/32oRUikbEG Lemon: "Everything now is about Trump's ego" CNN's @DonLemon discusses President Trump deciding to host a secret meeting with the Taliban despite opposition from within his own administration and then canceling the meeting. He also touched opened Trump's Twitter tirades.pic.twitter.com/nlTeQtSsIE "Donald Trump did do a good deed with the First Step Act, but he's not good for the country." Radio host @cthagod tells @DonLemon that Pres. Trump deserves credit for signing a criminal justice reform bill, but that doesn't mean he's good for the African American community.pic.twitter.com/zErkh6lzz5 President Trump vows to release a "financial report" on himself in the wake of raising ethics questions about government use of the President's private entities https://cnn.it/2NSNJxZ pic.twitter.com/h2Lxnm2KvV The crew of a US Air Force C-17 stayed at Trump's golf resort in Turnberry, Scotland, during a refueling stop en route to Kuwait in March, the Air Force acknowledged, again raising ethics questions about government use of the President's private entities https://cnn.it/2NUiB1g pic.twitter.com/vaso5Niant @CNNTonight nie wysy?a?/a jeszcze ?adnego Tweeta. Do góry ? Twitter jest przeci??ony lub wyst?pi? chwilowy problem. Spróbuj ponownie lub sprawd? status Twittera, aby uzyska? wi?cej informacji.  Mo?esz dodawa? lokalizacj? do Twoich Tweetów, jak miasto czy konkretne miejsce, z sieci lub innych aplikacji. W ka?dej chwili mo?esz usun?? histori? lokalizacji swoich Tweetów. Dowiedz si? wi?cej To jest adres URL tego Tweeta. Skopiuj go, by w prosty sposób udost?pni? znajomym. Umie?? tego Tweeta na swojej stronie, kopiuj?c poni?szy kod. Dowiedz si? wi?cej Umie?? ten film na swojej stronie, kopiuj?c poni?szy kod. Dowiedz si? wi?cej Hmm, wyst?pi? problem z po??czeniem z serwerem. Spróbowa? ponownie? Umieszczaj?c tre?ci z Twittera na Twojej stronie internetowej lub w Twojej aplikacji, potwierdzasz, ?e akceptujesz nasz? Umow? dla programistów i Zasady obowi?zuj?ce programistów. Na osi czas sp?dzisz najwi?cej czasu, czytaj?c wiadomo?ci o sprawach, które Ci? interesuj?. Najed? kursorem na zdj?cie profilowe i kliknij przycisk Obserwowany, by przesta? obserwowa? dowolne konto. Gdy widzisz Tweeta, którego lubisz, dotknij ikony serca — jego autor dowie si?, ?e jego wpis przypad? Ci do gustu. Najszybszym sposobem na udost?pnienie czyjego? Tweeta jest podanie go dalej. Dotknij ikony, by to zrobi?. Powiedz, co my?lisz o Tweecie, odpowiadaj?c na niego. Znajd? temat dyskusji, który Ci? interesuje, i do??cz do rozmowy. B?d? zawsze na bie??co i obserwuj publiczne dyskusje. Obserwuj wi?cej kont, by widzie? wi?cej wiadomo?ci na tematy, które Ci? interesuj?. Zobacz najnowsze rozmowy na dowolny temat. B?d? na bie??co z najciekawszymi historiami.