Sarah Storey criticises the organisation of the UCI Para-cycling World Championships after defending her WC5 time trial title. Will Bjergfelt is a contender at the Para-cycling World Championships four years after a collision left him with a bleed on the brain. Britain's Maisie Summers-Newton and Louise Fiddes win their first world titles at the Para-swimming World Championships in London. Multiple Paralympic swimming champion Jessica Long says changes to the sport's classification system have affected her motivation. Check out the BBC Sport Live Guide for details of all the forthcoming live sport on the BBC. Watch as Lauren Rowles and Laurence Whiteley pick up Great Britain's first gold medal of the 2019 World Rowing Championships with a win in the PR mixed double sculls. Para-rower Ben Pritchard hopes to qualify a GB boat for the 2020 Paralympics in Tokyo with a top seven spot at the World Championships in Linz. Meet Britain's Jack Shephard and Krysten Coombs, the world number one and two going head to head to compete at the Tokyo 2020 Paralympics. Paralysed after being shot as a teenager, British wheelchair racer Johnboy Smith goes for London Marathon glory. The new year is upon us, but who will have a stellar 2019? BBC Sport experts give us their views. Firefighter David Melrose's life was charged irrevocably in 2010 when he was paralysed at work. Now the former grave-digger is targeting the Winter Paralympics. Newly crowned World Para-athletics European champion Maria Lyle says she has battled with the pressure of being a young elite athlete. Tully Kearney said she went through the pain barrier to win gold in the S5 100m freestyle at the World Para-swimming European Championships in Dublin. Paralympic medallist Lauren Steadman says people's perceptions of her disability have changed since starting Strictly Come Dancing. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you How to get into disability sport - from archery to athletics and ice hockey to equestrian, there are thousands of clubs in the UK A list of the key dates for 2019. Listen to Baroness Grey-Thompson explain how the different Paralympic classifications work in just 90 seconds. Listen to the latest Ouch podcast 'England will plan racism response' F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France Bayliss reflects on time with England I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad