The Office of Research Development (ORD) works with faculty and staff to creatively develop and secure new funding opportunities, increase competitiveness for sponsored research, engage with sponsors (federal and state), support and enable faculty research leaders, and help to build grantsmanship capabilities campus-wide. Click here for our Research Development Services one-pager. Activities fall into four main areas: grantsmanship consulting and capacity building programs; large-scale proposal consultation and coordination; internal grant programs administration; and strategic research development initiatives as described below, along with the ORD staff and their areas of responsibility. The campus offers a range of internal grant programs The ORD team works to build research capactity in key strategic areas. Past examples include: In addition to working closely on research development strategic planning and direct proposal development support with other Research and Engagement units (UMass Innovation Institute, Research Business Managers Network, Office of Grants and Contracts Administration, and the Technology Transfer Office), ORD works with University Relations, Development and Alumni Relations, Corporate and Foundation Relations, Office of Institutional Research, Institute for Teaching and Excellence in Faculty Development, and academic units via college Associate Deans for Research and Center and Institute Directors to advance the campus research mission. Worldwide Universities Network - The University has also been an active member of the Worldwide Universities Network (WUN) since 2015. The WUN is a global higher education and research network of 23 universities across six continents. Faculty from WUN member institutions are engaged in over 80 active research initiatives, which address some of the world’s most urgent challenges, involving more than 2,000 researchers and students in a diverse range of collaborative projects. Learn more. ORD offers several faculty oriented workshops. Click here for more info. Loren Walker, M.S., loren@research.umass.edu, 577-3725 Director Large-scale proposal development, strategic research development initiatives, research networking, research analytics. Mary Fechner, Ph.D., mfechner@research.umass.edu, 545-4893 Proposal Development Specialist Proposal development, faculty research development programs, grantsmanship training and outreach. Mary K. Green, M.H.S., mkgreen@umass.edu, 545-8641 Research Development Associate Proposal development, faculty research development programs, Broader Impacts, grantsmanship training and outreach. Michelle Wonsey, B.S., mwonsey@umass.edu, 577-3726 Program coordination, office management, and general research development inquiries. Please note: All proposals for sponsored projects must be submitted through the Office of Pre Award Services (OPAS). See OPAS staff contacts by program area. General inquiries can be directed to Michelle Wonsey at 577-3726. For specific areas, see above. Venture Way Center 100 Venture Way, Suite 201 Hadley, MA 01035-9450 Pre-Award Services Contact Us Post-Award Management Contact Us Compliance Contact Us ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact