UMass Transit operates PVTA buses for the Five Colleges as well as the towns of Amherst, Belchertown, Deerfield, Granby, Hadley, Northampton, South Hadley, and Sunderland. UMass Transit is always looking for students who love to drive! We offer a paid Commercial Driver's License permit, paid training, and a free CDL. We are now accepting applications for our Fall 2019 training program. Click here for more information and how to apply to become a bus operator! Do you want to get hired on the spot? Like free food? Want one of the highest paying student jobs on campus? Drop in to the UMass bus garage on Saturday, September 14th any time between 11 AM and 2 PM. We'll have information about UMass Transit, food from Baby Berk, giveaways for our applicants, and we'll be doing on the spot interviews! Come meet our drivers and trainers, get one of the best paying jobs on campus, and have a meal on us! Need a ride? Shuttle services are available from all dining commons, with a van departing approximately every 20 minutes to drive you to the event! Want to take the bus? Hop on the Route 35 Mullins Center via Southwest and get off at the Lot 25 stop. Cross the intersection and come into the gate towards the garage. Prefer to drive? No problem! Head to 255 Governor's Drive, Amherst, MA 01003 and park in our bus yard. Must be a UMass student to apply!  UMass Transit is hosting a hiring event for our Fall 2019 training program! Do you want to get hired on the spot? Like free food? Want one of the highest paying student jobs on campus? Come to... read more A summary of schedule changes (effective September 3rd, 2019): Route Changes 30 One minute was added to the FAC to... read more We need your help to move UMass! Are you a UMass student? Do you love driving? APPLY ONLINE to join the... read more UMass Transit Services, along with the Franklin Regional Transit Authority are offering connecting transfer service from UMass Route 31 to FRTA Route 23- Sunderland/Greenfield. This transfer will... read more parking@umass.edu (413) 577-PARK (7275)  transit@umass.edu (413) 545-0056  transport@umass.edu (413) 545-4682