The European Central Bank cuts a key interest rate and re-starts quantitative easing. The European Central Bank cuts a key interest rate and re-starts quantitative easing. A Labour-commissioned report says people should work fewer hours, but capping their hours will not work. The US president described the move as a "good will" gesture and comes ahead of fresh talks with China. Jobs in shops have disappeared, while new roles in warehouses have mostly gone to men, a study has found. The surprise move from the owner of Hong Kong's main share market threatens the LSE's own bid plans. The law would mean the likes of Uber and Lyft would have to offer holiday and sick pay. Cancer drugs and animal feed are among the 16 US imports that will no longer be hit by higher taxes. The European Central Bank cuts a key interest rate and re-starts quantitative easing. A Labour-commissioned report says people should work fewer hours, but capping their hours will not work. The US president described the move as a "good will" gesture and comes ahead of fresh talks with China. Jobs in shops have disappeared, while new roles in warehouses have mostly gone to men, a study has found. The surprise move from the owner of Hong Kong's main share market threatens the LSE's own bid plans. The law would mean the likes of Uber and Lyft would have to offer holiday and sick pay. Cancer drugs and animal feed are among the 16 US imports that will no longer be hit by higher taxes. A Labour-commissioned report says people should work fewer hours, but capping their hours will not work. The US president described the move as a "good will" gesture and comes ahead of fresh talks with China. Jobs in shops have disappeared, while new roles in warehouses have mostly gone to men, a study has found. A Welsh minister says no amount of preparation can cope with the disruption the paper outlines. Conor Macauley BBC NI Agriculture & Environment Correspondent Derek Williamson leads Brexit contingency planning for the Department of Agriculture Environment and Rural Affairs. The European Central Bank cuts a key interest rate and re-starts quantitative easing. A Labour-commissioned report says people should work fewer hours, but capping their hours will not work. John Campbell BBC News NI Economics & Business Editor The retail and hospitality sector accounted for most of the growth in the second quarter of 2019. The partnership is hit by "difficult" trading and says a no-deal Brexit would have a "significant" impact Conor Macauley BBC NI Agriculture & Environment Correspondent The Yellowhammer paper says some cross-border trade would stop and agri-food would be worst hit. A consortium led by defence group Babcock International has won the competition to build new frigates for the Royal Navy, securing hundreds of jobs at British shipyards, including in Northern Ireland and Scotland. That's according to the Financial Times which says on its front page that deal throws a potential lifeline to Belfast’s Harland & Wolff, which fell into administration last month, and could boost Ferguson Marine Engineering, which is poised to be taken over by the Scottish government after collapsing in August Jobs in shops have disappeared, while new roles in warehouses have mostly gone to men, a study has found. Sarah Treanor and Vivienne Nunis Business reporters, BBC News, in Vanuatu The Pacific nation of Vanuatu is hoping kava will boost exports and bring in much needed cash. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News