Share this with Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn Copy this link These are external links and will open in a new window Chris Packham has hit out at producers of TV wildlife shows for not fully emphasising a "climate and environment emergency". Speaking at the TV Choice Awards, the Blue Planet Live presenter said the public were only being shown nature at its "very best". "We've got to start giving them the truth," he said, collecting the best factual show award for his programme. Packham was then booed for criticising I'm A Celebrity... for animal cruelty. In his extended speech, Packham said he had another "duty" to carry out, and asked I'm A Celebrity to change. "I'm A Celebrity, can you please think about no longer abusing animals on your programme?" he said. Although his words caused some in the audience at the London Hilton to groan, others applauded. Packham has previously targeted the reality show over the use of wildlife in its celebrity challenges. In 2014, he wrote an open letter to the show's presenters Ant and Dec, asking them to stop "undermining a respect for life, which then impacts negatively upon conservation". I'm A Celebrity.... Get Me Out of Here had, minutes before Packham's speech, been given an award for best reality TV show, with Holly Willoughby collecting the trophy. Willoughby stepped in as joint presenter, alongside Declan Donnelly, on the most recent series of I'm A Celebrity... while Ant McPartlin was on a break from TV to receive treatment for alcohol addiction. Other winners included Lorraine Kelly, who was given the award for outstanding contribution to television. She used her time at the podium to air her frustration with social media and the harm it can do to young people. "They have to deal with some really vile things on the internet," said Kelly. "That cannot continue. Don't look at the comments, don't take those comments to heart. "They're horrible, nasty ants with megaphones." Jodie Comer won best actress for Killing Eve. Although unable to attend due to filming series three of the hit series, she sent a message: "Biggest thank you goes to the public and fans of the show for their continued support and encouragement," she said. Adrian Dunbar took the best actor award for Line of Duty. "It's the first thing I've really ever won as an actor so it's a really big moment for me," he said. Danny Dyer won the award for best soap actor for the second year running, while Emmerdale was named best soap. Line Of Duty won best drama and Bodyguard best new drama. There was also a first win for Netflix, as Ricky Gervais' After Life was named best comedy. Here is the full list of winners this year: Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk. Boris Johnson denies lying over his reasons for the shutdown, after Scottish judges rule it unlawful. ‘All the gear, no idea’ Sign up for our newsletter