The Graduate Certificate in Aging, Policy and Public Health is designed to provide students with the knowledge and skills to become leaders in the fields of Aging, Policy, and Public Health. The Certificate is open to all graduate students currently admitted to the MPH/PHD Public Health Programs in the School, including on-line and in-person students. The program is also open to non-matriculated working professionals in the fields of Public Health, Health Care, Allied Health Sciences, Gerontology, and Education. As well as, researchers and policy makers in aging, who have an interest in improving skills in the field of aging and in potentially pursuing a future Master in Public Health degree. Successful candidates in the certificate will gain the following skills:  Bachelor's degree with a 2.8 GPA The graduate certificate in Aging, Policy, and Public Health is open to: Application Application Checklist Prospective students need to submit the following: Please submit all application materials, by either mail or fax to: Lori Peterson 223 Arnold House 715 N. Pleasant St. University of Massachusetts Amherst Amherst Ma 01003 413-545-0501 (Fax) phonline@schoolph.umass.edu  The Graduate Certificate programs office schedules regular information sessions. We have information sessions scheduled, where you can hear more details about each of our certificates. The session is hosted in Zoom. You can download Zoom, free, or join the meeting here. If you have already submitted an application and you wish to know if it is complete or check on its status, please call the department at 413-545-4530  The program requires the successful completion of 5 3-credit courses. Tuition for the program is $622.00 per credit. There is also a $47.00 registration fee per semester. Total cost of attendance based on two semesters is: $9424.00 Due to the non-degree nature of the certificate program, financial aid may be limited and may not include federal student loans. Should a graduate certificate student subsequently apply and matriculate into the UMass online MPH-PHP degree-granting program, the 15 credits will transfer into the degree upon admission, as long as the student achieved a B or better in each course. All non-degree transfer policies must be met and certificate students must meet all eligibility and admissions requirements for entrance into the full MPH program. Please visit the MPH-PHP program page for more information. Students who have been formally admitted to the online MPH can apply for admission to the Aging Certificate at any time during their program. Students who choose to do both would be concentrating in aging and should contact their advisor to discuss a course of study. Are you looking for funding opportunities? Please download this comprehensive list of public health scholarships. Online Master of Public Health Degree Programs 715 North Pleasant St., Arnold House Room 101 University of Massachusetts Amherst, MA 01003 phone: (413) 545-4530 | (413) 545-4550 phonline@schoolph.umass.edu ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact