We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes It’s our job to #GoThere & tell the most difficult stories. Join us! For more breaking news updates follow @CNNBRK & Download our app ?http://cnn.com/apps You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. Mass tourism is putting pressure on Thailand's most popular islands. Here are some alternatives to consider.https://cnn.it/34BZ9Mx Accept that you can't have a picture-perfect paradise with millions of tourists, strictly limit access to places like Phuket, and jack up the prices for those who do come in. #Thailand became the victim of global tourism The first time I was in Thailand, I saw an American taking a shit on the beach and when other tourists complained he said he had no respect for 3rd world country ppl. The third time I was there, an American couple from our boat took a piece of coral which is forbidden. Too often. I love my country Thailand pic.twitter.com/WEWW7y1KL2 Welcome to James Bond island 007pic.twitter.com/oBrm1BDd0R They’re probably rich Democrats on private planes complaining about climate change.pic.twitter.com/p5xPJSelRS Thailand, your prostitution system need to be curtailed. @CNN you need to fall in line. too many people went to there ! the environment have been destroyed ! They Are ALL Traps. Delete this tweet right now! The disrespect. When his wife left him friend of mine went to Thailand and found there a new wife almost 35 younger and really cutie.  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.