We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Tweeting the best in astrophysics, Earth sciences, engineering, robotic exploration, Sun science, and technology for NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center. You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. For the first time, @NASAHubble has found water vapor in the atmosphere of a habitable-zone exoplanet. More: https://go.nasa.gov/30b4mr4 pic.twitter.com/0ANtGxbnPx There could be billions of worlds out there that are capable of sustaining life, but what good are they if we don’t have the means of which to reach them? Means they’re safe from us. Spot on The rich people finna dip and leave us here I am fine with that, their greed is one of the reasons we are in this mess Faxs Nice. So, if we traveled at the speed of the fastest thing we've ever built, Helios 2, we'd make it in, what, about 400,000 - 500,000 years? Awesome! Probably be cheaper to fix earth than start a whole new planet.pic.twitter.com/B37wuo8cZa The thing about these kind of findings is that we have observed only a tiny, tiny fraction of the exoplanets in our own galaxy. Yet another reason why Hubble should continue to be maintained. Imagine making it so schools across the country was given access even for an hour or so to let kids pick a place for Hubble to look at, imagine the spark of wonder and desire for science it could achieve. i love that. you’re a genius Naw...just a simple guy. But thank you! When do we leave? Water...water on K2 18b Earth-like exoplanets @MiriamKronenbe1pic.twitter.com/3XsEVex0NX yea 25 million Lightyears Away, we having a hard time getting to OUR Planets Let Alone A Planet In Another Galaxy LOL Nasa Y'all Funny AF!! #WhatsThePointpic.twitter.com/F9VGcgSZRf Bruh it's not even that far away and it's the same galaxy that we are in... Bruh, 646 Trillion miles is FAR AF IDC How You Look At It! The size of the observable universe at this point is thought to be 93 Billion light years. It's 0.0000001% of the universe. That's roughly equivalent to 1.5 inches if traveling around the earth. So looking at it like that it's nothing when your talking AU No Its Not BUT, its Far enough that WE'RE Not Traveling there ANYTIME Soon! It doesnt matter if were travelling there but there might be signs of life there and it will probably be researched by future generations. You have to know researchimg space isnt fast and that its much bigger than any of us can think. totally agree!  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.