If you are a dietetic/nutrition professional looking to enhance your skill set or increase your knowledge, then the UMass School of Public Health & Health Sciences MS in Nutrition Online Degree Program may be right for you. This program is non-thesis, part-time, fully-online, and flexible to fit seamlessly into your busy schedule. With just 33 required credits, you can earn the MS degree in 2 years of part-time study. Upon completion of the program you can find employment in any of the following disciplines: Students earning an MS in Nutrition may also apply to some PHD Nutrition programs These minimum requirements cannot be waived. For international applicants or those U.S. citizens who completed their education internationally, the bachelor’s degree must be translated and evaluated as equivalent to a four-year degree from the U.S. Application timeline and checklist Required Materials 534 Goodell Building University of Massachusetts 140 Hicks Way Amherst Ma 01003-9333 Fax: 413-577-0010 Email: gradadm@grad.umass.edu If your institution provides electronic transcripts please have them sent to: gradadm@grad.umass.edu The GRE is waived for those individuals who hold an MD, JD or a Doctoral Degree in another field. All other applicants must submit scores. If you have questions about the GRE waiver, please contact the department. The MS in Nutrition schedules regular information sessions. Each session is hosted in Zoom. You can download Zoom, free, or join the meeting here. If you have already submitted an application and you wish to know if it is complete or check on its status, please call the department at 413-545-4530 All prospective students to the MS Nutrition online program, must have completed or must complete 7 basic science core courses. 5 out of the 7 of these courses must be taken before matriculation and 2 can be taken after. Basic Nutrition must be one of the 5 completed prior to application. The courses can be taken with UMass Amherst or with any other US institution. Transcripts proving completion should be sent with your application. The prerequisites cannot be waived. In addition, if a prospective student did not earn a BS in Nutrition during their undergraduate career, the following 2 Nutrition Core Courses must be completed, either before matriculation or during the program. For more information and instructions on how to enroll in UMass courses, please contact the department at 413-545-4530 or phonline@schoolph.umass.edu  $622.00 per credit The program requires the completion of 33 credits. These are split into 4 types of courses, advanced nutrition core, Public Health coursework, electives, and the final culminating experience. Students will develop the following competencies upon completion of the program:  Download the full curriculum. 1. Advanced Nutrition Core Courses (14 credits): 2. Required Public Health Course work (6 credits): 3. Elective courses (12 credits): 4. Culminating Experience (1 credit): You can download the program curriculum with full course descriptions here. Students are required to follow a prescribed course of study based on the semester they are admitted. Download the fall admissions course of study. Download the spring admissions course of study.  Online Master of Public Health Degree Programs 715 North Pleasant St., Arnold House Room 101 University of Massachusetts Amherst, MA 01003 phone: (413) 545-4530 | (413) 545-4550 phonline@schoolph.umass.edu ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact