In FY 2016, the TTO’s Services for the Creative Arts program continued to expand. The program, which was started in FY 2015, provides valuable assistance to a number of faculty, staff and students who wish to protect and license copyrightable works and Trademarks that they personally own under the UMass IP policy. Others look for guidance in matters such as starting a new company or optioning book rights to be made into a film. The TTO offers all of these services for free! Some of the 14 projects we assisted with in FY 2016 include: • Working with faculty and graduate students to copyright their authored materials. These included works such as educational manuals, videos, courses and specific how-to training guides. • Assisting two faculty members with licensing their short video to an educational publishing company to be included in a textbook geared to school-aged children explaining how engineering and design inspiration can come from the natural world. • Assisting in bringing a series of Developmental Biology Films to the public. The films can be viewed here . • Start-up counseling to a graduate student interested in starting a company around her community policy work. We continue to advise her in this endeavor. • Guiding and educating faculty about trademarking their service names and marks. We anticipate the program will continue to grow in the coming years as more faculty, staff and students seek these types of services and advise around their own IP. Feel free to contact the TTO for more information. Technology transfer is usually focused on inventions, but UMass Amherst faculty in the creative arts, such as authors, composers, artists, sculptors and architects also create valuable works that can benefit the public. Unlike inventions, most such works are scholarly works owned by their creators. However, many such works never get distributed beyond academic circles, because creative artists don’t often know a lot about copyrights and trademarks or how to license them to publishers and other distributors. We are developing a program to serve these faculty members, their students and staff by giving them advice, guidance and perspective on how to protect and license their works. Where the challenges are significant, we are willing to get directly involved and help make things happen. Some creative artists may wish to start new companies to develop and distribute their works, and we can help there, too. Our goal is to make tech transfer a pan-University program, and we plan to have as big an impact in the creative arts as we do in the technical arts. Mass Venture Center, Suite 201 100 Venture Way Hadley, MA 01035 Phone: 413-545-3606 Email: tto@umass.edu ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact