Long jumper Jazmin Sawyers is added to Britain's squad for the the 2019 World Championships in Doha. American sprinter Christian Coleman defends himself and says he has "never failed a drug test and never will". Europe comfortably beat the United States to win the inaugural The Match athletics event in Minsk, Belarus. Great Britain's Jake Wightman is beaten in a photo-finish by USA's Josh Thompson in the men's 1500m at The Match event in Belarus. Check out the BBC Sport Live Guide for details of all the forthcoming live athletics on the BBC. Great Britain's Daryll Neita wins the women's 100m race in 11.29 seconds with American Morolake Akinosun in second and Imani Lansiquot of Great Britain & Northern Ireland third. England Athletics are promoting the return of #runandtalk, which uses running to help with fitness, mental health and wellbeing. It's been 10 years since Usain Bolt broke the 100m world record in Berlin - BBC Radio 5 Live reflects on that moment of history. How Nafissatou Thiam is keeping her feet on the ground and her grades high, amid a multitude of medals. It lasts well over a month, with competitors running 18 hours a day. The 'Sri Chinmoy Self-Transcendence' is a race unlike any other. Legendary sprinter Michael Johnson talks to the BBC Radio 4 podcast about what it takes to achieve greatness. British heptathlete Katarina Johnson-Thompson discusses the sacrifices she is making to prepare for this year's World Championships. Before Dina Asher-Smith, Jodie Williams was the Briton expected to be the next big thing in women's sprinting, but injuries intervened - now based in Phoenix, she is ready to rise again. Tom Fordyce explains how the Caster Semenya case started with a search for a simple truth - but has ended with loose threads and unanswered questions. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you It has one of the widest ranges of choice in sport, from jumps and throws to sprints or distance and cross country running. With latest scores and headlines sent straight to your device, personalisation and much more, ensure you have a great sporting life with BBC Sport. BBC Sport picks out the major sporting events of 2019, including the Ashes, the Rugby World Cup and World Athletics Championships. I would have loved Neymar return - Messi F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France What Bayliss is really like - Wood I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad