We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes I spend most of my time stumbling around Twitter like a drunk toddler in a badly lit unfamiliar room. Follow with extreme caution You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo Play “ I spy with my little eye “ on long car journeys Mine do all the time!!! They must have a good mother Thank you  Why can't they pic.twitter.com/xGqFVjFoun Actually my daughter plays this in the car all the time and she’s 5. She learned it at school. Cool Hope she continues to enjoy Every kid cannot learn this game after 2000, that’s an actual fact from Dr. Scientist! True They just want ice cream these days . . . pic.twitter.com/CqbZyyCrgQ Why can't they? Beets me !? pic.twitter.com/wpcLKRrD5o Bro, the struggle! Tell me about it !! pic.twitter.com/Lh4KTObF3Q I'm 14 and I still do that with my siblings (12,11,10 years old) Cool Good on ya pic.twitter.com/i800F6IntT We've got ourselves a certified boomer Oh no they still do that... it's just basically a 3-6 y.o. game now instead of a 5-8 y.o. But kids today cant play #ISpy while laying down in the back of the station wagon with the seats flattened... Fortunately I have grandchildren who play that and lots of other interactive non tech car games. Credit goes to their parents.  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.