Jump to navigation In addition to our Masters in Business Administration, Isenberg offers four distinct masters programs: an MF in Alternative Investments, an MS in Accounting, an MS in Business & Analytics and an MS in Sport Management. These programs are among the most respected in the country, attracting talented, diverse students and the most accomplished faculty. Graduates continue on to successful careers at leading companies or to PhD programs at top institutions. The Master of Finance in Alternative Investments (MFAI) is a 1-year degree program is designed to prepare students to practice finance in the 21st century. The MFAI has achieved classification as a STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) program, and delivers the specialized skills and expertise needed to succeed in one of the fastest-growing yet most complex segments of the asset management industry. The Isenberg School of Management is a top ranked, AACSB accredited business school that simulates the real-world challenges you’ll face on the job so you’ll be equipped to handle the ever-changing issues of today’s financial world. Isenberg finance faculty are recognized around the globe for their leading-edge research in alternative investments and serve as editors of The Journal of Alternative Investments (JAI), the preeminent journal in the field. As a result, the department has an established reputation for excellence in scholarship as well as real-world application. The Center for International Securities and Derivatives Markets (CISDM), located at Isenberg, hosts conferences, connects academic and business communities, and provides access to the Morningstar CISDM Database. In 2002, CISDM co-founded the Amherst-based Chartered Alternative Investment Analyst Association (CAIA), which supplies credentials and support for alternative investments professionals. Leading firms at such financial entities as hedge funds, pension funds, money management firms, private equity firms, consulting companies, and university endowments are all seeking employees with expertise in alternative investments. Additionally, regulatory agencies from around the world face a critical shortage of staff members who can understand complex investment products and processes that are at the center of the industry. A master's degree in alternative investments prepares you to work in positions such as analyst, personal investment advisor, risk officer, compliance officer, trader, portfolio manager, pension consultant, researcher, and financial economist. Our MS in Accounting (MSA) prepares students to launch a high-level accounting career. The program is separately accredited by the AACSB, giving an Isenberg MSA more recognition and more portability. The rigorous curriculum gives students both a breadth and depth of knowledge in accounting and business. Students can complete the program in as few as eight months. Isenberg’s MS in Accounting has been praised for: Isenberg is a primary recruiting school for the most distinguished employers in public accounting, including the Big 4 public accounting firms, and many regional and local firms. Our active alumni network also helps graduates secure jobs. By earning an Isenberg MSA, students will fulfill the educational requirements to become CPA certified, giving them a head start in the job market. A 1-year accelerated program designed specifically for graduates of non-business majors. The Master of Science in Business & Analytics (MSB&A) is an accelerated program that provides graduates of non-business majors with the business analytics tools and techniques that are increasingly necessary to be effective in organizations of all kinds. Students will move through a one-year, 10 course curriculum with an initial cohort of 30-40 students beginning May 2017. No pre-requisites are necessary and GRE/GMAT waivers may apply based upon your undergraduate GPA. View the full curriculum. MSB&A graduates will learn the vocabulary of big data within a 31 credit curriculum that covers core business management knowledge such as accounting, finance, operations, marketing, and more. This program not only provides the necessary business acumen to complement their undergraduate education, but it will provide career connections & opportunities via the Chase Career Center and the Isenberg alumni network. Widely respected for the breadth and quality of its faculty, curriculum and research, the McCormack Department of Sport Management has been hailed by The Chronicle of Higher Education, SportsBusiness Journal, and The Wall Street Journal as a world leader. The highly selective program is housed at Isenberg. Isenberg’s MS program in Sport Management is praised for: Isenberg graduates become leaders in a broad range of sport industry segments. The program’s international stature means companies covet our graduates. Approximately 85% of our graduates from the previous 10 years still work in the sport industry, including sports teams and leagues, college athletic programs, national and international amateur-sport organizations, and firms specializing in sport marketing. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.