GREAT SAVINGS Subscribers save 15% off eligible general public ticket prices (price range A and B, FAC Series events only). TICKET EXCHANGES Subscribers can exchange tickets during the Box Office's regular business hours toward another eligible FAC performance. Please note - exchanges cannot be processed once a performance has passed. DINERS’ DISCOUNT CARD Receive 10%–20% off dining at selected area restaurants all season long, not just on nights of performances, from September 1, 2019 through May 1, 2020. A non-subscription order consists of fewer than three performances chosen from the Fine Arts Center Series (Center Series, Asian Arts and Culture, ¡Guitarra!, Magic Triangle) or purchases for the Department of Music & Dance, the Department of Theater, or other miscellaneous performances on sale through the Fine Arts Center Box Office. Discounts are available for many non-subscription tickets sold through the Box Office. For example, discounts are often available to Seniors over 60 and Youth under 17. Discounts cannot be combined, some discounts are only available in-person or over-the-phone, and the discounts offered do vary by performance. Please call the Box Office if you would like to know if you or someone in your party is eligible for a discount. Five College Discounts Discounts for many Fine Arts Center performances are available to full-time and currently enrolled students at UMass Amherst, Amherst College, Hampshire College, Mount Holyoke College, and Smith College. This discount is only available to the Five College Student(s) attending the performance and not for any other tickets they may purchase. Discounts are also available for full-time and currently employed UMass Amherst Staff and Faculty to use toward their own ticket and one ticket for a guest. The Fine Arts Center Box Office must confirm the name(s) and statuses of all Five College students and UMass Amherst Staff and Faculty purchasing discounted tickets. The ticket(s) will only be released to patrons after matching the name(s) on the order to the presented ID(s). The Five College student discount is not necessarily available to UMass Continuing Education students, UWW students, and employee-waiver students. Please call the Box Office if you would like to know if you or someone in your party is eligible for a discount. Groups of 20 or more are eligible for a 15% discount on adult tickets in Price Ranges A & B for performances in the Fine Arts Center series. Other tickets, such as youth or Five College student tickets, and tickets in Price Range C are not further discounted. The group discount is only available in-person or over-the-phone. Please call the Box Office for more details on group-rate tickets.  BY PHONE Purchase tickets by calling 413-545-2511 or 800-999-UMAS during regular business hours. There is a $2 phone handling fee on the total order. Payment methods accepted for over-the-phone ticket sales: Visa, MasterCard, Discover, and FAC gift certificate. IN PERSON Two free 15-minute parking spots are available for patrons buying tickets at the base of the FAC driveway on the campus pond side of the building. Accessible parking for in person sales is in the South Entrance Lot in front of the Fine Arts Center building when the appropriate license plate or placard is displayed. There is no handling fee when purchasing tickets in-person at the Box Office. Payment methods accepted for in-person ticket sales: cash, check, Visa, MasterCard, Discover, UCard, and FAC gift certificate. BY MAIL Download this order form , fill it out and mail it with your check or money order (made payable to the University of Massachusetts Amherst), or indicate credit card payment. Please note your seating preference; patrons wishing to sit together must submit their orders together. Mail to the UMass Amherst Fine Arts Center Box Office, 151 Presidents Drive, University of Massachusetts Amherst, Amherst, MA 01003-9331. ONLINE Online ticketing opens to the general public on Friday, May 31, 2019. There is a $1 to $2 handling fee per ticket when purchasing online. Only Visa, MasterCard, or Discover accepted. Box Office Hours are Monday through Friday 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. while the University is in session, and 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. during summer and winter sessions. It is closed for state and national holidays. The Box Office also opens one hour prior to show time at the venue where the performance is taking place for ticket sales and ticket pick-up. Subscriptions are available online starting May 31, as well as non-subscription/single tickets to the Fine Arts Center Series. Subscribing online is easy! Simply select Subscribe Online 3+ FAC Events when choosing the quantity tickets for each of your three or more performances.  The subscription discount is available on eligible FAC performances in price ranges A and B . Youth, Five College Student, price range C, Magic Triangle, and Guitarra tickets are not further discounted. If you don't find the Subscribe Online 3+ FAC Events price type when selecting seats, the performance is not eligible for a subscription. Please call the Box Office at 413-545-2511 or 800-999-UMAS if you're unsure which performances are eligible for a subscription. © 2018 University of Massachusetts Amherst Site Policies Site Contact