Learn to think critically and creatively about real-world accounting problems and become a leader in industry or academia. More Information M.S.A. Ph.D. Gain an introduction to the historical, political, and cultural circumstances of peoples of African descent located primarily in the Western Hemisphere, but also in Asia and Europe. More Information Certificate Be prepared to fill the growing demand for scholars and teachers who are professionally trained in Afro-American Studies at all levels by receiving a thorough grounding in African American and African Diasporic history, politics, and culture. More Information M.A. Ph.D. Become a leader in the public health field who is ready to positively impact the future of aging policy decisions, from the local to the federal level, with this flexible and fully online graduate certificate. More Information Certificate Gain a strong foundation in diverse areas of biological sciences with extensive research experience in disciplines such as immunology, infectious diseases, reproductive and developmental biology, cancer biology, and toxicology. More Information M.S. Accelerated Ph.D. Craft your own program of study in the subfields of archaeology, biological, cultural, and linguistic anthropology, work with renowned faculty, and conduct creative, independent, field-based research. More Information M.A. Ph.D. Join our public mission of undertaking challenges and projects that benefit local, regional, and global society, and develop your unique design process and professional potential. More Information M.Arch. Accelerated Choose from the immersive M.F.A. for professional artists or the intensive M.A. in Art Education to become an artist-educator ready to share your passion for and deep knowledge of the field with your students. More Information M.F.A. M.A. Pursue a range of observational, experimental, and theoretical topics in astrophysics in state-of-the-art laboratories and at highly competitive national and international facilities such as ALMA and Hubble Space Telescope. More Information Ph.D. Gain fundamental and advanced knowledge in the life sciences and modern molecular and cellular biology and prepare for careers in academia or industry teaching or doing research in contemporary biochemistry, biomedical sciences, and more. More Information M.S. Accelerated Advance healthcare using the latest experimental and computational techniques to solve problems at the intersection of biology, medicine, and engineering. More Information Ph.D. Address current trends and issues in business analytics by gaining knowledge in data sourcing/extraction, data visualization, data-driven strategic decision-making, and more More Information Certificate Work closely with departmental and interdisciplinary faculty on innovative research in state-of-the-art labs and facilities, with special emphasis in the areas of materials, bioengineering, and energy. More Information M.S.Ch.E. Ph.D. Tailor your degree to your interests and conduct cutting-edge research in traditional and contemporary subjects, from polymer chemistry to nanomaterials. More Information Ph.D. Focus on practical training for future work in translation, interpretation, teaching, and more, or emphasize more traditional literary and cultural studies en route to further graduate study. More Information M.A. The Civil and Environmental Engineering Department (CEE) at the UMass Amherst College of Engineering awards M.S. and Ph.D. degrees. More Information M.S.C.E. M.S.Env.E. Accelerated Ph.D. Address the emerging need for professionals trained in climate change resiliency by combining the interdisciplinary knowledge of planning, policy, and design to identify climate change solutions at the city level. More Information Certificate Draw from interdisicplinary fields such as Communication Disorders, Computer Science, Linguistics, Philosophy, or Psychology to identify new questions in cognitive science and approach them in innovative ways. More Information Certificate Treat communication as a primary social process and gain knowledge of communication theory, philosophy, methodology, and research. More Information Ph.D. Study both the normal processes of communication and the characteristics of communicative disorders as you prepare for careers in clinical practice or academia. More Information M.A. Au.D. Ph.D. Design your course of study as you explore broad-ranging issues such as relationships between translation and transnationalism, theory and media, the future of national literatures in the era of globalization, and more. More Information M.A. Ph.D. Explore the evidence-based inclusion of alternative therapies, such as aromatherapy, acupuncture, chiropractic, and naturopathy, into your existing healthcare practice. More Information Certificate Advance your career by gaining a foundation in designing and building state-of-the-art computer networks and related issues such as data transport, network design and analysis, and more. More Information Certificate The College of Information and Computer Sciences (CICS) offers a world-class curriculum in support of advanced degrees. The College is distinguished by its culture of collaboration and leadership in multi-disciplinary research, and is internationally recognized for its research activities. More Information M.S. Accelerated Ph.D. Learn to protect computer systems against security weaknesses, including software attacks, hardware reverse engineering, strikes to networking hardware, and more. More Information Certificate Build a deeper understanding of the theory and practice of heritage and culture as they are reflected in landscapes, in US national and international practice. More Information Certificate Advance your knowledge of architecture, design, and related fields as you pursue advanced study in concentration areas of Historic Preservation or Design Studies. More Information M.Design Increase your capacity as a practitioner and/or policymaker to develop, monitor, and improve early grade reading in developing countries around the world. More Information Certificate Gain a sophisticated and critical grounding in economic analysis and innovative economic theory so you can contribute creatively to research, teaching, and social policy. More Information M.A. Ph.D. Become a more innovative educator, a leading educational professional, or an effective public policymaker committed to social justice and diversity in education. More Information M.Ed. Ph.D. Certificate Ed.S. Collaborate with award-winning faculty on ongoing, funded research that is impacting the grand challenges of engineering, from nanotechnology to radars that measure climate change and weather. More Information M.S.E.C.E. Accelerated Ph.D. Understand the design, development, and deployment of embedded systems in items we use every day, from televisions to kitchen appliances to transportation systems. More Information Certificate Combine engineering knowledge with management perspectives and decision analytics to solve complex problems across industries as a data-driven leader of interdisciplinary teams. More Information M.S.Eng.Mgt. Interdisciplinary research informed by cultural studies and critical theory with specialized tracks in American Studies, Composition, and Rhetoric, and a renowned creative writing program for Poets & Writers. More Information M.F.A. M.A. Ph.D. Specialize in wildlife, fish, and conservation biology; forest resources and arboriculture; water, wetlands, and watersheds; environmental policy and human dimensions; or sustainable building systems. More Information M.S. Ph.D. Expand your skills in science and engineering for the protection of human health and the environment, and explore focus areas such as drinking water quality, groundwater hydraulics, wastewater treatment, and water supply. More Information M.S.Env.E. Ph.D. An interdisciplinary program designed to broaden and enrich feminist scholarship for students enrolled in a master’s or doctoral degree-granting program, and non-degree students. More Information Certificate Develop your interdisciplinary knowledge of film and related media forms from diverse theoretical, thematic, historical, critical, cultural, and methodological perspectives. More Information Certificate Learn how science and technology can provide a safe, healthful, and high-quality food supply to all through a blend of coursework, lab work, and research. More Information M.S. Accelerated Ph.D. Build on your passion for the French to pursue a career as a translator, interpreter, or educator, or to prepare for a doctoral program in areas such as French studies, history, political science, and more. More Information M.A. M.A.T. Use theoretical perspectives and methodological approaches to hone your focus in urban geography, political ecology, sustainability, environmental history, and more. More Information M.S. Accelerated Conduct internationally recognized research on Earth processes, global change, and human geography as you prepare for a career in industry, academia, or government. More Information M.S. Ph.D. Strengths in these interdisciplinary graduate programs include cultural studies and film studies, as well as special resources such as the DEFA Film Library and the Yiddish Book Center. More Information M.A. Ph.D. Improve your knowledge of issues and policies in global public health in this fully online, flexible certificate programs ideal for current students in health degree programs as well as working professionals. More Information Certificate Build on your higher education background and gain stronger leadership and management skills to ready yourself for career moves into positions with greater responsibility. More Information Certificate Enhance your professional opportunities in the Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking world or become a higher-education teacher or scholar. More Information M.A. M.A.T. Ph.D. Combine the resources of a major public university with significant faculty in areas of material science, landscape architecture, and building construction technology to prepare for a career as a conscientious steward of place. More Information M.Design Hone a deep specialization in your field through a concentration and two subfields, particularly in areas like women’s history, public history, Latin American history, European history, the history of science and technology, and the history of the Pacific World. More Information M.S. Ph.D. Explore art and architecture across time and geography and gain hands-on experience through internships in museums and historical associations, teaching assistantships, research with faculty, and more. More Information M.A. Industrial engineers (IEs) are systems thinkers who combine math, data science, engineering, economics, social science, and business methods to help organizations improve their products and services, mitigate risks, and more generally, make better decisions. More Information M.S.I.E.O.R. Accelerated Ph.D. Build the skills in information technology, policy, and risk management that you need to stand out in a highly competitive field, either on campus or online for maximum flexibility. More Information Certificate Gain a solid basis of state-of-the-art knowledge in IoT, learning how discrete electronic components can be interconnected to form networks and how to monitor, control, assess, and protect these systems. More Information Certificate Become an outstanding educator in secondary schools through a balanced curriculum in Italian and education studies combined with hands-on student teaching. More Information M.A.T. Examine the language, literature, and culture of Japan across topics and periods, from the classical era to contemporary, from different disciplinary perspectives in preparation for careers in industry or academia. More Information M.A. Study human movement from a multidisciplinary approach, focusing on areas such as biomechanics and motor systems, physical activity and health, and physiology. More Information M.S. Ph.D. Gain the hands-on skills that activists need to be effective leaders in the labor movement, and examine the larger theoretical and strategic issues confronting workers today. More Information M.S. Accelerated Learn to plan and design sustainable places that embody beauty, protect the environment, and enhance people’s lives using your skills in the visual arts and the physical and natural sciences. More Information M.L.A. A two-year program to teach Latin and classical humanities to grades 5-12 through studies in classical languages and literatures and hands-on teaching experience More Information M.A.T. Certify your competency in area and language studies as you prepare for professional careers grounded in internationalism, multiculturalism, and foreign language abilities. More Information Certificate In one of the top graduate programs in theoretical linguistics, conduct individual creative research with faculty in specialty areas including syntax, semantics, phonology, phonetics, psycholinguistics, language acquisition, morphology, computational linguistics, and more. More Information Ph.D. Gain a broad base of business knowledge and focus your studies in areas such as business analytics, entrepreneurship, finance, healthcare administration, marketing, or sport management. More Information M.B.A. Accelerate your career in this growing but complicated asset class, gaining the cutting-edge knowledge and credentials you need to understand the global financial market with a focus on ROI for investors. More Information M.Fin. The business degree for non-business majors, covering core business management knowledge such as accounting, finance, operations, marketing, and more. More Information M.S.B.A. Become a scholar, researcher, and educator in the management of organizations with a concentration such as Finance, Hospitality and Tourism Management, Sport Management, Strategic Management, and more. More Information Ph.D. Combine your business acumen with another area of academic interest—such as Civil Engineering, Sport Management, or Industrial Engineering & Operations Research—through an MBA/MS dual degree. More Information M.B.A. M.S.C.E. M.S.Env.E. M.S.M.E. M.S.I.E.O.R. M.P.P.A. Learn to investigate fraud, complete audits, and identify discrepancies in financial records in this graduate certificate program that can be completed entirely online. More Information Certificate Gain a broad foundation in marine sciences and related technologies, and conduct innovative research in preparation for a career in academia, with government and non-governmental agencies, or in the private sector. More Information M.S. Ph.D. Combine courses in pure mathematics, applied mathematics, and statistics and work on the latest research in number theory, geometry and topology, and more. More Information M.S. Ph.D. Prepare for a career in contemporary industry or business through training in applied mathematics and scientific computing and exposure to mathematics-related subjects in science and engineering. More Information M.S. Within the Department of Mathematics and Statistics, you may choose to concentrate your studies in Statistics through the Master of Science or Doctor of Philosophy degrees. More Information M.S. Accelerated Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering at UMass Amherst allows you to explore collaborative and interdisiciplinary research with faculty and peers in best-in-class facilities. More Information M.S.M.E. Accelerated Ph.D. Acquire the knowledge and skills needed to embark on a career as an independent microbiologist. More Information M.S. Ph.D. Accelerated Prepare for a career in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries through intensive, hands-on laboratory work in the latest concepts of molecular biology and biochemistry. More Information Accelerated Build on your STEM background with interdisciplinary training in almost all aspects of the biological science, working with faculty on research in biological chemistry and molecular biophysics, cellular and developmental biology, and biomedicine. More Information M.S. Accelerated Ph.D. Gain professional training for a variety of careers in classical and jazz performance, music education, history and theory, conducting, and composition/arranging through the M.M. or terminal Ph.D. More Information M.M. Ph.D. For performers, composers, and other musicians, gain the credentials to teach music history in a variety of educational settings, such as a summer music school, college, or private studio. More Information Certificate For performers, composers, and other musicians, gain the credentials to teach music theory in a variety of educational settings, such as a summer music school, college, or private studio. More Information Certificate Learn about the histories, cultures, and historical and contemporary issues affecting Indigenous peoples of the Americas and beyond as you position yourself to become a leader in research, development, and policy analysis. More Information Certificate Earn a graduate degree by doing research with interdisciplinary training in neuroscience and behavior. Topics span molecular, cellular, developmental, systems, and cognitive neuroscience. More Information M.S. Accelerated Ph.D. Advance your knowledge and improve your professional nursing practice in a variety of health care, research, and academic settings. More Information M.S. D.N.P. Ph.D. Advance from registered nurse to educator as you develop your skills to take on teaching roles in colleges, universities, and clinical settings. More Information Certificate Receive broad, integrative training in ecology, evolutionary biology, animal behavior, and organismal biology with faculty from wide-ranging departments such as Biology, Environmental Conservation, Psychology, Microbiology, and more. More Information M.S. Accelerated Ph.D. Prepare for a career as an academic by producing rigorous and meaningful philosophy; engaging in original research in metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, logic, and more; and building your teaching skills. More Information M.A. Ph.D. Tailor your master’s degree to prepare you for further study or a career in industry, or enter the doctoral program and perform original research in experimental and theoretical condensed matter physics, nanoscience, experimental and theoretical nuclear and particle physics, and more. More Information M.S. Ph.D. Gain training, experience, and mentoring in the full spectrum of agricultural and environmental study, including sustainable agriculture, plant physiology, molecular biology, biotechnology, plant pathology, and more. More Information M.S. Ph.D. Work with faculty on multidisciplinary research with approaches that range from practical to theoretical on all levels of biological organization, from molecules to landscapes. More Information M.S. Accelerated Ph.D. UMass-Amherst offers PhD and accelerated MA degrees in six fields of political inquiry: American Politics, Comparative Politics, International Relations, Political Theory, Public Policy and Public Law. More Information M.A. Accelerated Ph.D. Study all aspects of the evolving polymer field, from synthesis to engineering and physics, and undertake cross-disciplinary research with faculty, other universities, and national labs. More Information M.S. Ph.D. Meet the growing need in the United States for medical professionals trained in treating mental health and substance disorders in this flexible online program. More Information Certificate Become a scientist and educator by pursuing coursework, research, and teacher training in behavioral neuroscience, cognition and cognitive neuroscience, social psychology, clinical psychology, or developmental science. More Information M.S. Ph.D. Participate with other working public health professionals in the skillful discussion of what is right and what is good in contemporary public health practice. More Information Certificate Learn to analyze and assess medical and public health data and design laboratory, medical, and public health studies to improve the health of the world around you. More Information M.P.H. M.S. Accelerated Ph.D. Become a public health professional who empowers people to gain control over the social, political, and personal conditions that affect their health. More Information M.P.H. M.S. Accelerated Ph.D. Learn to provide a quantitative approach to measuring and monitoring the effects of environmental stressors on human health by developing and applying the modern tools available in the public health sciences. More Information M.P.H. M.S. Ph.D. Foster the prevention and early detection of disease by understanding how various diseases progress through human populations and aiding in the development and evaluation of health programs. More Information M.P.H. M.S. Accelerated Ph.D. Prepare for managerial and administrative positions in health organizations and regulatory bodies by learning to design, implement, evaluate, and improve programs within the health care system. More Information M.P.H. M.S. Accelerated Ph.D. Take an interdisciplinary approach to specialized areas such as nutritional biochemistry and physiology, nutritional epidemiology, and more as you prepare for further study or for careers in research, education, community, or clinical settings. More Information M.P.H. M.S. Accelerated Ideal for working professionals with busy schedules, the 100% online M.P.H. allows you to advance your public health career without taking time off from work. More Information M.P.H. Advance your public health career with this blended online and face-to-face program with in-person courses that meet on the Worcester, MA, campus. More Information M.P.H. Study the many ways history and heritage shape contemporary life through interdisciplinary seminars and field service projects. More Information Certificate Develop the knowledge and gain the practical experience to solve problems for the common good and become a leader in government, the nonprofit world, or the private sector with a one- or two-year program, open to full- and part-time students. More Information M.P.P. M.P.P.A. Accelerated Integrative studies of all facets of planning— physical, environmental, social, cultural, economic, and political—at all scales and densities, from rural to urban. More Information M.R.P. Accelerated Ph.D. Become an outstanding researcher or industry leader through state-of-the-art training in empirical microeconomics and applied econometrics. More Information M.S. Accelerated Ph.D. Employ a research-based and critical approach to implementing the foundations and methods of psychological principles for the benefit of children, family, schools, and society. More Information Ed.S. Ph.D. Prepare for a range of careers by speaking to public issues and informs policy, community work, and activism, as well as research in clusters such as crime, law, and deviance; social networks; social demography, and more. More Information M.S. Ph.D. Learn how soft materials can drive applications in the life sciences, especially in sensors and at the interface with immunology, and build professional, managerial, and technical skills. More Information Certificate Gain a competitive edge with a graduate degree from the world’s #1 sport management program as you learn from world-class faculty and tap into an unparalleled alumni network. More Information M.S. Become an effective data scientist by blending topics in statistical methods, statistical computing, machine learning, and algorithm development. More Information Certificate A one-year professional master’s degree program that trains you for a sustainability-focused career in industry, academia, government, or the nonprofit sector. More Information M.S. Develop your capacity as a teacher-leader and gain a deeper understanding of learning to write and writing to learn by working on your own writing, reflecting on your teaching practices, and reading current research. More Information Certificate Prepare for an active career in theater through small classes, a maximum of personalized attention, and many hands-on opportunities through programs in Directing, Dramaturgy, Costume Design, Lighting Design, and Scenic Design & Technology. More Information M.F.A. Join the first-ever wind energy certificate/concentration program in the U.S. and prepare for a career in academia or industry in this burgeoning field. More Information Certificate