The free Amherst Business Improvement District trolley runs each week, Thursday - Sunday, throughout the Fall and Spring semesters. The UMass Amherst Homecoming parade marches through downtown Amherst. An activity during New Students Orientation Weekend, Adventure Into Amherst invites first-year students into downtown Amherst, introducing them to local businesses, non-profits, and more! Mass Impact Day of Service is coordinated by the Student Activities and Campus Life. The day of service brings over 400 students to more than 30 organizations for a day of volunteering and public service. Amherst Hosts Community Forum #2 A Conversation about our Downtown (November 22, 2017) The Town of Amherst Select Board, Planning Board, and Town Manager invite you to the second in a series of community forums on Downtown Amherst on Wednesday, December 6, 2017, from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. in the Bangs Community Center, 70 Boltwood Walk. The purpose of the forum is to continue our discussion about the Downtown – our town center – and to begin to make a plan for the future. We want to hear from everyone – residents, students, business people, workers, walkers, bicyclists, movie-goers, library patrons, shoppers, visitors – whoever you are. The last time we met we gathered input about what we love about Downtown Amherst and what needs to be improved. This time we will be focusing in on how to preserve what we love and how to shape our Downtown for the future. Join us and express yourself in this interactive forum. We want to know what you think. Submitted by Eric Beal on January 2, 2018 - 5:11pm Amherst Community Band and Director Tim Anderson  The University-Town of Amherst Collaborative (UTAC) is a joint initiative of the Town of Amherst and the University of Massachusetts Amherst. It is made up of Amherst residents, UMass Amherst town and university officials, and UMass Amherst students. UTAC is an advisory council to the town manager and chancellor which provides leadership and ideas, while building support for future joint endeavors. The UMass Amherst Community Campaign (UMACC) is an employee benefit that allows faculty, staff, and retirees to donate to any non-profit organization. UMACC demonstrates to the community that UMass Amherst employees are committed to helping make the world a better place. Since 1991, employees have donated almost $8 million to charitable organizations through UMACC.  The Campus and Community Coalition to Reduce High-Risk Drinking (CCC) works to promote responsible decision-making about alcohol and other drug use. The group identifies factors supporting high-risk and illegal drinking; analyze data; and implement proven and promising strategies to create positive change. The CCC seeks to improve the health, safety and wellbeing of our communities. The Office of External Relations and University Events is responsible for community relations and serves as the primary liaison between UMass Amherst and the community. We connect faculty, staff, and students with a wide range of opportunities in our host communities. We work with student organizations on community-service and volunteer opportunities and engage in community-relations initiatives. The office builds and maintains relationships with the community by responding to inquiries and connecting university programs, resources, and expertise to meet community needs. We offer to the public and promote such university events as lectures, performances, concerts, and athletic events, and work jointly on economic development and planning projects with the town governments of our host communities in Amherst and Hadley. We are actively engaged with and provide support, guidance, and leadership to a number of local non-profits and organizations. We oversee four important initiatives that guide our community relations efforts: the University-Town of Amherst Collaborative (UTAC), the University of Massachusetts Amherst Community Campaign (UMACC), the Campus and Community Coalition to Reduce High-Risk Drinking (CCC), and our Neighborhood Liaison program. Our staff ably handles these acronym-heavy projects while seeking to create greater engagement with our local community. UMass Amherst and its host communities of Amherst and Hadley have shared a long rich history over the past 150-plus years. Besides its positive impact on the local economy, UMass Amherst adds to the cultural richness, intellectual depth, and ethnic diversity of the Amherst Area and the region. Numerous town-gown collaborations benefit our host communities and campus. These partnerships provide unique educational opportunities, support community and civic organizations, and enhance the region's quality of life. They are built on a shared desire to make UMass Amherst and its surrounding town great places to live, work, play, and learn. ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact