Beginning Sep. 18, all members of the campus community are encouraged to participate in Dignity and Respect in Action: Community Conversations, a series of workshops for students, faculty, and staff to build skills to overcome division and combat polarization while talking about real issues affecting our campus and society at large. The University of Massachusetts is committed to fostering diversity and inclusion in the classroom. This means integrating diversity into the curriculum in a systematic way and also preparing students and instructors to manage diverse perspectives when dealing with the unexpected. Hateful acts aim to intimidate and hinder our goals of inclusive community. We reject hatred and launched the Hate Has No Home at UMass campaign in August 2017 to make clear our aspirations to be a community that collectively rejects hate. This campaign begins our affirmative emphasis on campus climate, describing who we want to be and combining old and new resources and programming to help us build the community of our aspirations. Read the Dignity and Respect in the Classroom resource to better understand the challenges and steps you can take to build a classroom culture that promotes learning. Funded seed grants at UMass will contribute to the mission of the National Science Foundation ADVANCE program, which is advancing women faculty, including women faculty of color, in science and engineering. Deadline to apply is 9/17/2019. STRIDE (Strategies and Tactics for Recruiting to Improve Diversity and Excellence) workshops provide best practices to recruit for diversity and excellence across every stage in the search process, and is designed to help faculty produce diverse candidate pools. Completing STRIDE will be a requirement for all faculty searches this year. In an email to the campus community on Thursday, Sept. 12, Nefertiti Waker, interim asscociate chancellor for diversity, equity and... Undergraduate and graduate students from Isenberg and beyond will benefit from the knowledge presented at the ILS. The goal of this... ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact