Apply Now Apply Now Application fee $35 – All Applicants Program Fees Program fees include tuition, housing, a full meal plan, co-curricular activities, and a one-time registration fee. All students receive a UMass student ID card (UCard) as well as access to the campus Recreation Center. Materials Fees Certain programs have an additional materials fee to cover the cost of necessary tools and supplies. These come pre-packaged through the host departments. Summer Design Academy: $125 Pre-Veterinary Medicine: $45 Students living in or near Amherst, MA may apply to attend as commuter students. Commuter students must have their own transportation to and from campus. $6,616 Included: • Lunch-only meal plan • UCard • Rec Center access • Co-curricular activities Full and part-time benefited employees of the UMass system are eligible for a tuition credit for their dependents (tuition only). Full time employees receive a 50% reduction in tuition; part time employees receive a 25% reduction in tuition. The UMass system includes benefited employees at: UMass Amherst, UMass Boston, UMass Lowell, UMass Dartmouth &UMass Medical. Please contact summerprograms@umass.edu for instructions. Residential 50% 25% Commuter 50% 25% One-Week Intensives $1,130 $1,338 One-Week Intensives $631 $839 Two-Week Intensives $2,222 $2,637 Two-Week Intensives $1,168 $1,583 Three-Week Intensives $3,265 $2,888 Three-Week Intensives $1,665 $1,288 Six-Week Intensives $6,890 $8,390 Six-Week Intensives $3,616 $5,116 I-20, SEVIS & Delivery: $350 For more information, email summerprograms@umass.edu Partial Scholarships Students accepted to any 1-week, 2-week or 3-week program may apply for a partial, need-based scholarship. Scholarships are not guaranteed, as funding is limited. Unfortunately scholarships are not available for the 6-week Research Intensives. See below to learn how to apply. Full Scholarships UMass Summer Programs is offering one full, need-based scholarships for each of the following programs: Drug Discovery: Medical Properties of Plants, and the Summer Engineering Institute. See below to learn how to apply. Additional Scholarships The following programs also offer need-based, partial scholarships through their host departments: Sport Management & Leadership Academy* and Summer Engineering Institute. See below to learn how to apply.  How to Apply for a Scholarship To apply for a scholarship, with the help of your parent or guardian, please write a statement addressing how receiving a scholarship would affect your ability to attend the program you have applied for. We cannot process your scholarship application until you have completed and submitted your online application (with all supporting materials). Your scholarship essay should include your application number, name, date of birth, and the name and email address of your parent or guardian. Send scholarship letters to: summerawards@umass.edu A letter of verification from a community member who is aware of your family's financial situation is helpful as we review your application. Letters from high school principals, guidance counselors, community or religious leaders, or a representative from a social service agency are all acceptable. The letter should describe the nature of your relationship and a statement verifying your financial need. This letter should be emailed to: summerawards@umass.edu. The deadline is March 31st. Any available scholarships will be disbursed shortly after the deadline. *Sport Management & Leadership Academy: The McCormack Department is dedicated to fostering a diverse and inclusive environment in the classroom, and the sports industry. Young women and students of color who cannot meet the financial obligations of the Sport Management & Leadership Academy are encouraged to apply for a scholarship. Applications will be judged based on the applicant’s academic record, sport-related work or participatory experience, and a short, 500 word essay that describes their career aspirations. Please submit scholarship essays to: summerawards@umass.edu. The deadline is March 31st. Deposit & Confirmation of Attendance Once accepted, a non-refundable deposit of $500 must be paid to hold a student’s space in the program. Payment of the deposit represents the student’s confirmation of attendance and is non-refundable. We recommend submitting your deposit as soon as possible, as some programs may fill up quickly. Payment Deadlines Program fees are due in full 4 weeks prior to the program start date. Session 1: June 2, 2019 Session 2: June 9, 2019 Session 3: June 23, 2019 Minimum Enrollment Contingency Acceptance to Summer Pre-College programs is contingent upon courses reaching a minimum enrollment. If a course to which you have been accepted is cancelled due to under-enrollment, we will offer you a space in an alternate program.  Refund Policy If UMass Summer Programs cancels a course for any reason, students receive a full refund. If a student withdraws from the program, refunds are provided according to the schedule below. The $500 deposit is non-refundable.  Summer Pre-College Refund Schedule 2019 Session 1: June 30 Before June 2 100% minus deposit After June 2: No refund  Session 2: July 7 Before June 9: 100% minus deposit After June 9: No refund  Session 3: July 21 Before June 23: 100% minus deposit After June 23: No refund Withdrawals must be submitted in writing to: summerprograms@umass.edu UMass Summer Programs is hosted by Continuing & Professional Education. Our programs range from college-level courses for high school students to Intensive English programs for adult learners. summerprograms@umass.edu UMass Summer Programs 408 Goodell 140 Hicks Way Amherst, MA 01003 413-577-2112 summerprograms@umass.edu Facebook Twitter ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact