Jump to navigation Isenberg’s Management program equips students with the creative problem-solving skills necessary to understand and plan for change. Are you a people person? Do you gravitate toward leadership roles? Management students are entrepreneurs, strategic planners, holistic thinkers and cross-departmental connectors. Management courses have a special emphasis on people in the workplace. Among other topics, you’ll learn about: Isenberg’s management department simulates the real-world challenges you’ll face on the job so you’ll be ready to tackle any complex issue thrown your way. Our faculty challenge students to answer questions about how theory applies to the real world through experiential learning. Experiential learning opportunities include: New Venture Planning Foundations of Sustainable Enterprise Isenberg Management Association Management graduates are positioned to excel in a variety of managerial and consultancy positions, including HR manager, Office manager, Small business manager, Regional operations manager, Retail store manager, Hospitality manager Many management majors start their own businesses, or have also gone on to graduate studies in business, law or professional management programs offered by major corporations.  Isenberg offers freedom without compromise – a flexible learning environment that delivers a superior education online with the same curriculum as our on-campus program. Our online students are working professionals, parents and community members who live full lives and have demanding, often fluctuating schedules week to week. They want a superior education on their terms. No campus visits are required, as students can complete the entire degree online from anywhere in the world. To meet the graduation requirements for a BBA degree, every Management major must complete the following coursework: ACADEMIC ADVISING Our advisors are experts with over ten years of experience guiding students through online education. They are here to assist you with any questions you may have about your studies, from finishing your degree to taking stand-alone classes that complement your career. Professional Organizations There are many HTM-related organizations students can turn to for learning and networking such as the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) and the Academy of Management (AOM) The PhD program in Organization Studies is designed for individuals who are interested in understanding and researching the changing dynamics of organizations in contemporary society. Our program offers access to a unique group of world-class faculty specializing in the following research topics: Students must take 45 credits of coursework, building foundational knowledge in Organization Studies and Research Methods before taking advanced courses. The program includes a summer paper and first year portfolio, a colloquium, a comprehensive examination, a 2-year teaching requirement and a dissertation. YEAR 1: Coursework, including foundational courses; Summer paper; Colloquium; First Year Portfolio YEAR 2: Coursework, including core courses, research electives and minor area courses; Colloquium; Comprehensive exam YEAR 3: Additional coursework as needed; Development of dissertation proposal; Teaching YEAR 4: Dissertation; Teaching The PhD program in strategic management allows students to make scholarly contributions to the field through research, and to prepare for a career in academia. Our program is designed to be an integrative discipline that draws extensively from such fields as organizational theory, organizational behavior, and industrial organization economics. Major topics within the field include: Students must take 45 credits of coursework, which seminars in organizational theory and organizational behavior, as well as statistics, methods and elective courses. Students must pass both a qualifying and comprehensive examination, take a professional colloquium course, write and defend a dissertation, and teach at Isenberg. YEAR 1: Coursework, including statistics, research methods and theory courses, and research electives; Qualifying exam; Colloquium YEAR 2: Coursework, including core courses, research electives and minor area courses; Comprehensive exam; Colloquium YEAR 3: Additional coursework as needed; Development of dissertation proposal; Teaching YEAR 4: Dissertation You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.