The Pacific nation of Vanuatu is hoping kava will boost exports and bring in much needed cash. The Pacific nation of Vanuatu is hoping kava will boost exports and bring in much needed cash. The latest China trade data points to further signs of strain in the world's second largest economy. While Dutch firms are ready for Brexit, some say that food exports to the UK will be delayed. Firms will have to seek central bank permission to buy foreign currency and make bank transfers abroad. It is 400 years since slaves were brought to what is now the United States - and to Wall Street. The president says talks will start "very shortly" but China has yet to confirm any fresh negotiations. Australia maybe a newcomer in growing black truffles but is now the world's fourth-largest producer. The Pacific nation of Vanuatu is hoping kava will boost exports and bring in much needed cash. The latest China trade data points to further signs of strain in the world's second largest economy. While Dutch firms are ready for Brexit, some say that food exports to the UK will be delayed. Firms will have to seek central bank permission to buy foreign currency and make bank transfers abroad. It is 400 years since slaves were brought to what is now the United States - and to Wall Street. The president says talks will start "very shortly" but China has yet to confirm any fresh negotiations. Australia maybe a newcomer in growing black truffles but is now the world's fourth-largest producer. The latest China trade data points to further signs of strain in the world's second largest economy. While Dutch firms are ready for Brexit, some say that food exports to the UK will be delayed. Firms will have to seek central bank permission to buy foreign currency and make bank transfers abroad. Sarah Treanor and Vivienne Nunis Business reporters, BBC News, in Vanuatu The Pacific nation of Vanuatu is hoping kava will boost exports and bring in much needed cash. Tom Edgington BBC Reality Check The UK says it want to replicate the EU's trade agreements "as far as possible". The UK has signed an economic partnership agreement with the Southern African Customs Union and Mozambique (SACU+M), which the government says will allow business to keep trading freely after Brexit. It allows businesses to continue to trade on preferential terms with South Africa, Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, Eswatini and Mozambique, to which the UK exports machinery and mechanical appliances worth £409m, some £335m of motor vehicles, and beverages including whisky worth £136m. Those figures are for 2018. Liz Truss, international trade secretary, said: "This is a major milestone as the UK prepares to become an independent trading nation once again, and we are helping businesses get ready to trade with the most exciting markets around the world." The UK imports fruit and nuts worth £547m and motor vehicles worth £409m from these nations, the government said. China is planning to exempt 16 types of US products from additional retaliatory tariffs, including whey and fish meal, according to a statement from the Ministry of Finance. The exemption on US export goods from import tariffs will take effect on 17 September and will be valid for a year. The move comes ahead of a new round of trade talks scheduled for later this month. The latest China trade data points to further signs of strain in the world's second largest economy. Conor Macauley BBC NI Agriculture & Environment Correspondent Not all exporters will be able to comply with new rules after Brexit, according to a department. Neil Koenig Producer, In Business, Rotterdam While Dutch firms are ready for Brexit, some say that food exports to the UK will be delayed. A brief guide on the trade war between the world's two largest economies. Vincent Ni and Christopher Giles BBC Reality Check President Trump says that China has lost at least three million jobs - is this true? Zoe Thomas BBC Business reporter, New York It is 400 years since slaves were brought to what is now the United States - and to Wall Street. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News