We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Let’s get loud.http://bit.ly/302K1bL JLO PERFORMING AT THE SUPERBOWL!?pic.twitter.com/m6SEeHRuxn JLo could be the Super Bowl Halftime performer in February 2nd.....and then possibly win an Oscar February 9th. #JLO2020 #Hustlerspic.twitter.com/6YHgHJUTvF imagine a JLo super bowl Get right, On The Floor, Let’s Get Loud, Waiting for tonight, Love dont cost a thing, Dance Again, Jenny From the Block, and Bootypic.twitter.com/inrafnOX5b Football is finally back!! So much fun doing this @nflonfox promo! #YouHustled #Hustlers #Ramona @HustlersMoviepic.twitter.com/QBvEPtsYEq So many reports and big media outlets reporting that JLO may headline the 2020 superbowl halftime show and I'm shakingpic.twitter.com/o0HCoBmPcn Jlo for Superbowl halftime?!?!pic.twitter.com/0BGNW1dwau Imagine JLo performing at Super Bowl and winning an Oscars all happening in 2020. I planted seeds. IT WILL BE THE PEAK OF JENNIFER LOPEZpic.twitter.com/gzhIIC6i1T Here's a list of past #SuperBowl halftime performers. For those who aren't thrilled with the possibility of the age-defying @JLO... who WOULD you want?? Maroon 5 (Travis Scott, Big Boi) Justin Timberlake Lady Gaga Coldplay (Bey, Bruno Mars) Katy Perry Bruno Mars Beyonce Madonnapic.twitter.com/4CuuSPmFzx You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.