Former world number one Kim Clijsters is "inspired" by other mothers such as Serena Williams. Andy Murray takes a wildcard entry into next month's Shanghai Masters as he steps up his singles comeback. In his latest BBC Sport column, Jamie Murray talks about why retaining the US Open mixed doubles title with Bethanie Mattek-Sands was so special. Tennis players Bethanie Mattek-Sands and Caroline Wozniacki enrol at the prestigious Harvard Business School. ATP Tour WTA Tour Watch Nick Kyrgios smash two racquets during a bad-tempered Cincinnati Masters defeat by Karen Khachanov. Defending US Open champion Naomi Osaka wins hearts all over again when she consoles teenager Coco Gauff after beating her in the third round. GB wheelchair tennis player Lauren Jones talk about how sport changed her life after breaking her back in 2009. From racquet-smashing to rants, how much can you remember about some of tennis' most dramatic tantrums? Gear up for the US Open with our quiz. Althea Gibson became the first black player to win a Grand Slam yet she has received little recognition - until now. Britain's three-time Grand Slam winner Andy Murray is ready to be reckoned with as a singles player again, writes Russell Fuller. An in-depth look at Novak Djokovic's rise, from growing up in a war-torn country to becoming the world's best male tennis player. Petra Kvitova was attacked in her home in December 2016. This is the story of her survival, her return to tennis, and how it changed her. Meet the man behind the film, art and music parodies that form a unique chronicle of Andy Murray's career. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you Analysis and opinion from the BBC's tennis correspondent. How to get into tennis - it's fun, will keep you fit and caters for all levels and abilities. Find your nearest court and learn the basics with our guide. Get the latest tennis headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our newsletter and learn where to find us on online. Evil Genius: Watch out, dead famous people I would have loved Neymar return - Messi F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France What Bayliss is really like - Wood I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad