UMass Amherst, located in Amherst, Mass., is a nationally-ranked public research university offering a full range of undergraduate, graduate and professional degrees.    The College of Education offers doctoral, master’s and bachelor’s degree programs and certificates that prepare leaders in education theory, policy, research and practice. High quality, nationally and internationally recognized programs of study delivered through on-campus, blended and on-line classes; award-winning outreach initiatives; 68 full-time faculty; and five research centers. A top-ranked college that prepares students for industrial, research and leadership opportunities in Chemical, Civil and Environmental, Electrical and Computer, and Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, students are engaged in emerging areas such as bioengineering, nanocomputing, water resources and off-shore wind energy. As the creative and cultural heart of the campus, the College of Humanities and Fine Arts (HFA) explores the ways people have sought to express themselves and the world around them through classical humanities disciplines of literature, history, and philosophy to a world-renowned Department of Linguistics; exceptional programs in the performing and visual arts; and interdisciplinary departments considering language, identity, and biology. College of Humanities and Fine Arts The College of Information and Computer Sciences (CICS) offers a world-class curriculum in support of BA, BS, MS, and PhD degrees. CICS is internationally recognized for its research activities and has one of the highest ranked and most competitive graduate programs in the nation. The College is distinguished by its culture of collaboration and leadership in multi-disciplinary research. CNS unites the life, environmental, computational, and physical sciences, and mathematics on campus. CNS strengths include cutting-edge research, top-ranked academic programs, award-winning and internationally recognized faculty. CNS also serves the university’s land grant mission for Massachusetts. College of Natural Sciences The College of Nursing prepares candidates to enter the nursing profession at the baccalaureate, master’s, and doctoral levels while developing vital nurse educators and researchers who will inform and educate future generations of nursing students. The online graduate program has been ranked among the top 25 in the country by U.S. News & World Report. Central to the university’s academic heart, SBS bridges the sciences and liberal arts. Each year SBS educates thousands of students in the areas of culture, society, and individual behavior, while promoting citizenship and global understanding. College of Social and Behavioral Sciences Commonwealth Honors College is a community of scholars that offers the advantages of a small college plus access to the opportunities and resources of a nationally recognized research university. Commonwealth Honors College Isenberg is accredited at the highest level by the AACSB and is ranked 20th among public universities by BusinessWeek. The school offers seven undergraduate majors as well as rigorous MBA and PhD programs. Isenberg's world-class research strengths include alternative investments, quality management, large-scale networks, organizational change and culture, and behavioral accounting. Isenberg School of Management The SPHHS is the only state-supported CEPH-accredited school of public health in New England. It offers BS, MA, MS, MPH, AuD, and PhD degrees in Communication Disorders, Kinesiology, Nutrition, and Public Health. It addresses pressing cross-cutting issues such as obesity, diabetes prevention, women’s health, global health, aging, environmental exposures, and autism spectrum disorders. The historic Stockbridge School of Agriculture offers hands-on, intensive AS, BS, and graduate education in fields relating to agriculture and landscapes, and a vibrant spectrum of teaching, research, and outreach programs. It resides within the College of Natural Sciences. Stockbridge School of Agriculture The Graduate School provides services and support for the university’s 47 doctoral and 75 master’s programs. Graduate students benefit from the Graduate School’s professional development activities and the fellowship, conference travel, and research funds that it distributes. Graduate School Disability Services Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Snapchat © 2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Amherst, MA 01003 Contact UMass Amherst • Employment Opportunities • Site Policies • UMass System