Jump to navigation Isenberg finance majors master the latest analytical and decision making skills in investing, borrowing, managing capital, and optimizing returns. They pursue curricular specialties in alternative investments, corporate finance, financial analysis, and financial risk management. Finance students don’t just study money, they study how money interacts with risk and time. Understanding this relationship is critical to helping individuals, companies and governments make wise decisions about managing capital, investing or borrowing funds, optimizing returns, and staying financially sound. At Isenberg, we prepare our students for a career in finance by offering diverse curricular specialties in corporate finance, financial analyst, financial risk management, and alternative investments. Our rigorous, progressive curriculum immerses students in current issues and practices through hands-on problem solving and teamwork, including real-time data analysis using Bloomberg terminals, internships with premier financial firms, and participation in student-managed funds. Our internationally prominent faculty members are renowned for research in investments, including hedge funds, mutual funds, risk management, stock market anomalies, international investments, tax evasion, options, fixed income derivatives, and financial econometrics. Our high-profile Center for International Securities and Derivative Markets (CISDM) underscores our longstanding leadership in alternative investments education and research. Through CISDM, students gain access to the Morningstar CISDM Database, the oldest hedge fund and commodity trading advisor data base on the market. And they gain an “inside industry” edge into how those markets perform and evolve. Finance is the study of money and its relation to time and risk. Finance majors at Isenberg learn how to raise debt and equity capital, evaluate profitability and riskiness of projects, value small businesses and large corporations, and make traditional and alternative investments in global financial markets. For on-campus students, the BBA in Finance offers an expansive and rigorous curriculum with an honors capstone. Students participate in hands-on experiences with case method teaching, real-time data access though Bloomberg terminals, internships with the best financial firms, and active student clubs. For students with at least 27 transferable credits, Isenberg offers an online degree completion program. This flexible learning environment is ideal for the non-traditional student, including working professionals, parents and community members, and offers the same rigor and quality as the on-campus curriculum, culminating in a BBA in Finance. No campus visits are required; students can complete the entire degree online from anywhere in the world. The Isenberg Finance program features a superb network of alumni. Graduates take positions in a broad spectrum of industries, including banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, real estate developers, and accounting firms. Here are just some of the roles our graduates have earned: EQUITY RESEARCH ANALYST - ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENT - JUNIOR EQUITY TRADER - FX DERIVATIVES OPERATIONS SPECIALISTS, GLOBAL MARKETS - ASSISTANT TO NATIONAL BANK EXAMINER - COMMERCIAL CREDIT ANALYST - BUSINESS ASSOCIATE The Master of Finance in Alternative Investments (MFAI) is a 1-year degree program is designed to prepare students to practice finance in the 21st century. The MFAI has achieved classification as a STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) program, and delivers the specialized skills and expertise needed to succeed in one of the fastest-growing yet most complex segments of the asset management industry. The Isenberg School of Management is a top ranked, AACSB accredited business school that simulates the real-world challenges you’ll face on the job so you’ll be equipped to handle the ever-changing issues of today’s financial world. Isenberg finance faculty are recognized around the globe for their leading-edge research in alternative investments and serve as editors of The Journal of Alternative Investments (JAI), the preeminent journal in the field. As a result, the department has an established reputation for excellence in scholarship as well as real-world application. The Center for International Securities and Derivatives Markets (CISDM), located at Isenberg, hosts conferences, connects academic and business communities, and provides access to the Morningstar CISDM Database. In 2002, CISDM co-founded the Amherst-based Chartered Alternative Investment Analyst Association (CAIA), which supplies credentials and support for alternative investments professionals. Leading firms at such financial entities as hedge funds, pension funds, money management firms, private equity firms, consulting companies, and university endowments are all seeking employees with expertise in alternative investments. Additionally, regulatory agencies from around the world face a critical shortage of staff members who can understand complex investment products and processes that are at the center of the industry. A master's degree in alternative investments prepares you to work in positions such as analyst, personal investment advisor, risk officer, compliance officer, trader, portfolio manager, pension consultant, researcher, and financial economist. Develop your managerial potential and practical finance skills, giving you the opportunity to build a successful career in finance. The Isenberg MBA with a Focus in Finance offers a mix of general business and finance elective courses to meet your specific educational goals. This MBA is ideal for individuals interested in a career in investment banking, corporate finance, venture capital, or consulting. Focus areas equip you with the knowledge and skills in an interest area to propel you into the MBA-level job you desire upon graduation. Tailor your education with an additional set of elective coursework to support a chosen career or industry. The Isenberg MBA curriculum is designed to prime you for success, providing the business acumen to become a creative problem-solver, levelheaded decision maker, and resilient leader in today's global economy. Whether you're online or in the classroom, you'll have the tools to help you advance. Learn more about Online MBA Learn more about Full-time MBA Isenberg's PhD in Finance is a rigorous and supportive full-time program that prepares students for careers in academia and industry The finance faculty consists of research-oriented scholars who support students in their academic work. Their research interests cover a wide range of areas and expertise. Some of these areas include: Students must take 45 credits of coursework. Students must pass both a core and comprehensive examination, and must write two summer papers. YEAR 1: Coursework, including statistics, research methods, and theory courses, and research electives; Core exam; First Summer Paper YEAR 2: Coursework, including core courses, research electives and minor area courses; Comprehensive exam; Second Summer Paper YEAR 3: Additional coursework as needed; Development of dissertation proposal; Teaching YEAR 4: Dissertation You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.