The Fine Arts Center has named Michael Sakamoto to the newly created position of associate director of programming. He will also serve as director of the Asian arts and culture program. Ernest Pharmaceuticals, a startup venture based at UMass Amherst’s Institute of Applied Life Sciences (IALS), is one of four companies to win $2,500 from the Massachusetts Technology Transfer Center’s (MTTC) in a business pitch poster competition in Boston. This recognizes the groundbreaking young biotech firm as it brings its research on programmed bacteria that deliver anticancer treatment to tumors from labto market. In an email to the campus community on Thursday, Sept. 12, Nefertiti Waker, interim asscociate chancellor for diversity, equity and inclusion and chief diversity officer, offered descriptions of several campus-wide iniatives designed to foster a culture of equity and inclusion. The campus will conduct a test of the UMass Amherst Alerts Emergency Notification System (ENS) on Tuesday, Sept. 17 after 12:50 p.m., according to Jeff Hescock, executive director of Environmental Health and Safety and Emergency Management. Carly Forcade, the Berthiaume Center for Entrepreneurship’s operations and student engagement specialist, is the 2019 Amherst Area Chamber of Commerce Young Professional Award recipient. The Institute for Social Science Research (ISSR) will be holding a “Celebration of ISSR” event on Monday, Sept. 16 from noon to 1:30 p.m. in Old Chapel. Members of the campus community are invited to attend and welcome new director, Joya Misra. UMass Amherst Libraries’ department of special collections and university archives (SCUA) in partnership with A Network for Grateful Living (ANGL) is hosting The Radical Aliveness and Belonging Symposium: Exploring the Intersections of Spirituality and Social Change. The symposium is Friday, Sept. 27, 2019 from 1 to 4:30 p.m. in the Fine Arts Center Concert Hall at UMass Amherst and will generate discussion and action around how to make a wholehearted, positive difference in the world The theater department is collaborating with the Office for Equity and Inclusion and Student Affairs and Campus Life to present Kirsten Greenidge’s “Baltimore" this fall. Ela Gezen, associate professor of German, was invited to participate in the Cluster of Excellence “Temporal Communities: Doing Literature in a Global Perspective” at the Freie Universität Berlin. Members of the campus community are invited to nominate a faculty member who has demonstrated academic quality and leadership to be the next Spotlight Scholar. Spotlight Scholars are individuals whose research, scholarship or creativity shines through in their studies. Advanced Search