Jump to navigation UMass Amherst IT's video conferencing facilities are equipped with state-of-the-art video conferencing equipment and allow real-time exchange of voice, video, and data with other facilities around the world. These facilities are primarily intended to support teaching and learning at UMass Amherst and other University of Massachusetts campuses as well as the Five Colleges. UMass Amherst IT's video conferencing facilities are equipped with state-of-the-art video conferencing equipment and allow real-time exchange of voice, video, and data with other facilities around the world. These facilities are primarily intended to support teaching and learning at UMass Amherst and other University of Massachusetts campuses as well as the Five Colleges. For more, see Video Conferencing: Facilities & Equipment. In 2015-2016 UMass Amherst launched an expansive video conferencing pilot to determine which tool would best meet the needs of the campus community. We found that Zoom met campus needs the most comprehensively, and we will be rolling out Zoom to the campus in the fall of 2016. For more information about Zoom and how to request a license, see Video Conferencing Applications. To schedule a video conference or for more information, contact Chris Golas (413-545-3895, chris.golas@umass.edu). If you are a UMass instructor and have questions about, or need help with incorporating video conferencing into your teaching, please contact the Instructional Media Lab (instruct@umass.edu | 413-545-2823). For in-classroom A/V support related to teaching with Zoom video conferencing, please contact Classroom Technology Services at 413-545-8280, Monday-Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. There is no charge for the Zoom video conferencing application. UMass Amherst Instructional Innovation staff can be scheduled, at no charge, to assist with running most scheduled video conferences between the five UMass campuses or within the Five Colleges. An overtime fee of $50/hour will be applied if the video conference takes place after 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, or on weekends or holidays.  © University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact