Why choose the UMass Amherst PMHNP Online Certificate? There is a great need for more advanced practice PMHNPs in the United States to meet the needs of the community by offering treatment for mental health and substance disorders. The UMass Amherst Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP) Post-Master's Online Certificate prepares nurses to obtain psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner certification. This accelerated online program is designed for nurses who have completed a Master's degree and who wish to expand their scope of practice to include the care of individuals, families and groups with psychiatric and mental health needs. Preference is given to nurses with experience in psychiatric mental health nursing. The program may be completed in as few as two years, with individualized plans of study which recognize each student's clinical practice experience. Students benefit from the College of Nursing's focus on integrated mental health care and from classes taught by the College of Nursing's expert faculty. Students are expected to find their own clinical preceptors. Please review the College of Nursing graduate clinical placement page (p. 63 in the Graduate Student Handbook in the Downloads section below) to read more about what types of preceptors you will need. This certificate will prepare students to:  Proposed Objectives for PMHNP Post Master’s Certificate  The PMHNP Certificate courses are completely online. You do not need to come to campus to complete this program. You will gain experiential learning through clinical practica to be arranged in your area. Individual plans of study will be developed for each student. See the Downloads section for sample plans of study for APRN and non-APRN students. Clinical Hours Required: Non-APRNS: 728 APRNs: 560  Estimated Fees  Admissions Requirements APPLICATION MATERIALS ARE DUE BY DECEMBER 15. Starting dates to be determined based on transcript review and available seats.  Ready to Apply? Open the PMHNP Certificate Application Package in the Downloads section below. There is no application fee.  Need More Information? Or contact:  The College of Nursing is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE).     The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master’s degree program in nursing and Doctor of Nursing Practice degree program at the University of Massachusetts Amherst College of Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The baccalaureate degree program is fully approved by the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Nursing. The University of Massachusetts Amherst is accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE; formerly the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges).     