As a global university, the University of Massachusetts Amherst is proud to have a diverse and inclusive community of faculty, staff, and students. International students are a vibrant part of our campus, and we look forward to learning more about you through your application. Below, you’ll find additional information about the application process. Be sure to also follow the application instructions on our How to Apply page. Feel free to contact us if you have questions. If your native language is not English, and you are not a U.S. citizen or U.S. permanent resident, you must submit your scores from a standardized English Language Proficiency Test in addition to your other required application materials (unless you meet one of the waiver conditions listed below.) The University of Massachusetts Amherst Graduate School accepts the following: The minimum TOEFL score as set by the Graduate Council is 80*; the minimum IELTS Academic combined score is 6.5; and the minimum PTE Academic overall score is 53, although many graduate programs expect higher scores for admission. Please consult your program’s page for specific requirements. *Please note, the Graduate School does not consider the ETS MyBest Score set when reviewing an applicant's TOEFL scores for admission. Official test scores must be transmitted electronically from the test agency to the University of Massachusetts Amherst Graduate School. The Institutional Code for the University of Massachusetts Amherst is 3917. If asked for a departmental code use 00. Scores are valid for two years from anticipated date of entrance. Your standardized English Language Proficiency Test requirement may be waived if one of these conditions exists: You have citizenship of Australia, Botswana, Canada, Caribbean English speaking countries, Dominica, Gambia, Ghana, Great Britain, Guyana, Hong Kong, Ireland, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, Namibia, New Zealand, Nigeria, Scotland, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, West Indies, Zambia, Zimbabwe. You have earned a college or university degree in the United States or in one of the countries listed above. You have earned a degree from the American University in Beirut, American University in Bulgaria, American College of Greece, or from Bogazici University in Turkey. You are currently enrolled as a full-time student who will have completed two academic years of college/university work in the United States prior to the date of anticipated entrance at the University of Massachusetts. You have been certified by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates. As an international student applicant (non-U.S. citizens who do not hold U.S. Permanent Resident Status), you may be considered for admission to master's or doctoral degree programs if you have attained your baccalaureate degree at a regionally accredited American college or university, or possess an equivalent degree. "Equivalent" means four years of University undergraduate work at a regionally accredited institution, preceded by at least 12 years of elementary and secondary school studies. Most foreign four-year degrees are recognized as being equivalent; however, the three-year Indian Bachelor of Arts, Science, and Commerce degrees and other three-year Asian degrees are not considered to be equivalent. A three-year baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited institution with a year of full-time master's degree coursework may be considered equivalent to a U.S. baccalaureate degree. Transcripts and degree documents that are in a language other than English must be accompanied with an official English translation or an official credential evaluation from a member of the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services. In order to make your graduate education more affordable, UMass Amherst offers a number of funding opportunities that are available to international students. To get a sense of how much your graduate tuition at UMass Amherst will cost, please refer to the Estimate of Expenses. Other possible expenses not included in this estimate are: Once you confirm your acceptance with the Graduate School and have demonstrated that you have the funding/resources to support your education, the International Programs Office will send you an I-20 form. You will need this form to apply for a non-immigrant visa, enter the United States, and more.