Submitted by lclick on Mon, 2014-10-27 08:48 We need to convince you we have the right product opportunity for your company, consider your needs and concerns as seriously as our own, and give you such a positive experience working with us that you will welcome the opportunity to work with us again. Posting technologies on databases is all the rage these days, but we will go much further. We will define product opportunities, identify which are relevant to your business, learn about your products, and consider how our technologies might enhance or expand your business. We will then find the right person in your company, reach out to them personally, and explain the product opportunity and why we think it would be a good opportunity for your company. If we then negotiate a license agreement with your company, we will take special care to understand your company’s needs, and think creatively with you to resolve any complex issues. We will avoid rigidity, and be glad to develop and customize contract language we may agree is needed. And importantly, we will be as committed as you are to getting the deal done fast. In addition, we realize that licensing technology is not simply “passing the baton;” your company’s needs may change, and unforeseen challenges may arise in product development. We are sensitive to these dynamics, and will be glad to work with you to adjust the license terms as needed to fit with changing circumstances. Last but not least, if you need technical support or research participation by UMass inventors and scientists, we will be glad to arrange that, too. If you look at our technology portfolio, you will see that inventions are not scattered randomly among technical fields; they are in clusters. There is a very good chance that if one of our technologies is of interest to your company, other technologies may be too. Our goal is not just to license one technology to your company, but to build a relationship that can lead to many such transactions. We are committed to giving you such a positive experience working with us that this will become your goal as well. We invite you to contact us to discuss various opportunities. We can be reached at (413) 545-3606 or tto@umass.edu. Mass Venture Center, Suite 201 100 Venture Way Hadley, MA 01035 Phone: 413-545-3606 Email: tto@umass.edu ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact