UMass's Online Sexual Assault Prevention Training   Frequently Asked Questions By Category This page provides information for Incoming UMass students taking the online Sexual Assault Prevention Training Course, "YIS" (Your Intervention Strategies). Where can I get emotional support? There is 24/7 support available to anyone who needs it. CWC Crisis Hotline 413-545-0800 Where can I ask questions about YIS, get technical assistance with the program and/or provide feedback? Please contact the YIS Team for any of these reasons. If you are experiencing technical issues, please provide browser/version, type of computer, and location from which you are trying to access the course. YIS Technical Support: yis@umass.edu Where can I get help logging into Spire or Moodle? IT Help Center 413-545-9400 (8:30 a.m. - 4:45 p.m., M-F) Email: it@umass.edu  How do I log in to YIS? Use your Net ID to login to moodle.umass.edu. You can access the course in the Action Items section of your NSO Moodle Page. How long does it take to finish the course? Each individual works at different paces so completion time may vary. YIS can take up to an hour to complete. How will I know that my YIS requirement has been satisfied? Once you reach the end of the YIS graphic novel, you will be given access to a final quiz. A score of 80% or higher is required in order to pass. If you do not receive at least an 80% you will need to retake the quiz until the requirement is met.  What should I do if I want to take a break? YIS is designed to be completed in one sitting. Exiting and returning to the course can cause data to be lost, making it look as if you have not completed YIS. Do your best to complete the course in one sitting. What do I do if the course will not load? The course takes from 30 seconds to 2 minutes to load. The course runs best using the newest versions of Safari or Google Chrome. YIS is optimized for both laptop and desktop computer. It is not recommended to view the course using a tablet or a smartphone. If you need access to a computer, UMass has many public workstations: http://www.library.umass.edu/services/computers/ If your question is not answered here, e-mail yis@umass.edu for further assistance. Please include the type of computer and internet browser you are using with your e-mail.    New Africa House, 180 Infirmary Way, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003 Phone: (413) 545-0883 - Email: cwc@umass.edu - 24-Crisis Hotline (Sexual Assault / Rape): (413) 545-0800/Toll Free (888) 337-0800 ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact