We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes It’s our job to #GoThere & tell the most difficult stories. Join us! For more breaking news updates follow @CNNBRK & Download our app ?http://cnn.com/apps You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. The White House has sent a team to California this week for "fact finding" and "learning more about the crisis" of homelessness in Los Angeles, a White House official confirmshttps://cnn.it/34BMyZS They didn’t have to go that far to study homelessness...has the administration not ever walked around DC? It’s literally right outside the door. #SplinterInYourEye CNN is reporting "facts." I doubt the most corrupt administration in living memory wants to bring any solution to California's homeless problem. But profit off of it politically? Sure And what they will find is a whole lot of mental health issues and no real mental health assistance. Will the WH address that and really do something to provide real help for those poor people? They could have saved taxpayers the airfare and just walked outside. There are tons of homeless people sleeping yards from the White House. Maybe the solution is more tax cuts for the 1%? /sarcasm If u go to California, the rulers of the “Gas Towns” will make u fight in a pit unless u bring a piece of copper in the shape of Saturn. “Garcetti's staff showed the officials "the Unified Homelessness Response Center, the redevelopment of Jordan Downs public housing complex, prefabricated Flyaway Homes, and the St. Andrews Place A Bridge Home shelter recently opened in South L.A.," Federal govt should aid big cities with HUD policies to provide aid for housing but @MayorOfLA dont let Trump play you. @SpeakerPelosi are you on this trip as well? Fun and games. It’s sad because their motivation is entirely pernicious. Garcetti should be removed from office IMMEDIATELY for failing his voters on the homelessness problem! Go directly to @drdrew and let him go over the severity of the situation. Contain the health risks then deal with the homeless. And this is where they wanted to welcome illegal immigrants and give them free health care? Immigrants would look at THIS and say “no thanks. I’ll go back to my country”. How can you expect to take care of thousands of illegals when you already have THIS?? All that's left in California - The rich and the homeless. Sounds like a new soap opera! About time http://teespring.com/clres Weaponizing quotation marks  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.