Following Sunday's municipal elections in the Russian Federation, the President of the Congress... The Bureau of the Congress adopted a declaration at its meeting on 11 September 2019 calling for... The Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe will meet in Strasbourg,... The European Charter of Local Self-Government lays down standards for protecting the rights of local authorities and requires states which have ratified it to comply with a number of principles. The Congress is responsible for evaluating the application of the Charter in each Member State. Post-monitoring and post-electoral dialogue aims to support national authorities in order to ensure the implementation of the recommendations adopted by the Congress and addressed to the national authorities of member states by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The Congress periodically observes local and regional elections in Council of Europe member States and, sometimes, beyond. This activity, which may be organised in cooperation with other international organisations, complements the political monitoring of the European Charter of Local Self-Government Cooperation and thematic activities complement, in the field, the normative work of the Congress. They are based on the political dialogue and the monitoring of the application of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and enable the implementation of the adopted recommendations and resolutions. Download on Youtube a short video clip which presents the role of the Congress and its main activities to promote local and regional democracy in Europe. Download on Youtube a short video clip which presents the monitoring of the implementation of the European Charter of Local Self Government and the observation of local and regional elections. Download photos of Congress recent events available on the Council of Europe multimedia portal or on Flickr. Calendar "All Congress events" 37th Session | 29-31 October 2019 Presidency Bureaux A-Z and national delegations Political Groups Who's who Stay connected and follow Congress news online. COE CongressApp : Congress’ news in real time, with notifications. Congress newsletter : weekly summary of the Congress'news  PARTNERS RESOURCES FOLLOW US USEFUL LINKS  