Boris Johnson denies lying over his reasons for the shutdown, after Scottish judges rule it unlawful. A Politico report said Israel was likely behind surveillance devices found near the White House. Clinics in Idlib, the rebel-held part of Syria, are being targeted - despite it being a war crime. Thousands of Africans are crossing Panama's Darien Gap - one of the world's most dangerous jungles. Jos Buttler pushes England beyond 250 on the first evening of the fifth Ashes Test against Australia at The Oval. Lionel Messi says he would have "loved" for Neymar to return to Barcelona as his arrival would have increased their chances of "achieving our objectives." Three-time Olympic swimming champion Katinka Hosszu explains how she earned her 'Iron Lady' nickname.  15°C 21°C 10°C 23°C 12°C 25°C 13°C The new home for amazing BBC video content Existence at this altitude almost seems impossible What Pata Pata meant in the apartheid era We treat trees as disposable, but life without them would be unimaginably bleak Meet the South Korean commune that thrives without any power South Africans have been outraged by a spate of rapes and murders Buried in Roman times, the skeletons have been holding hands for around 1,500 years Vanuatu hopes kava will boost exports and bring in much-needed cash The 250m crane can lift 5,000 tonnes and is starting work at Hinkley Point C power station in Somerset. The entire season is now available on BBCAmerica.com and the BBCA app A movement called Queer Tango is challenging the traditional roles in the dance. The streaming service from the BBC and ITV is the biggest collection of British TV in one place. Two Britons are among five facing charges over a $688,000 (£588,000) drug haul '????? ????? ????? ?? ?????? ???? ??? ???????? ????? ?????' Qué significa para la economía de Argentina el "histórico" acuerdo para la venta de harina de soja a China (y por qué preocupa en Estados Unidos) ??? ????? ?? ??????? ??? ????? ????? ???? ???? ????: ?????? ????? Cá Voi Xanh: Trung Qu?c hay giá ?i?n m?i là lý do th?t?