Jump to navigation The Chase Career Center's primary goal is to help Isenberg students discover and build a well thought-out career plan that will allow them to develop the essential skills and insights to launching their optimal career path. Regular events include career fairs, networking events with alumni, employer presentations, and a full year of on campus recruiting activity. Chase also helps students with internships, resumes, cover letters and interview skills. IsenbergWorks is the primary job and internship platform for current Isenberg students. As an Isenberg student, this is your “go to” system for applying for jobs and internships and scheduling on-campus interviews with Isenberg employer partners. The Big Interview platform gives students the skills and preparation they need for successful interviews, including effective responses to challenging questions and scenarios, behavioral, industry and competency-based interview practice, and valuable recruiter perspective. Handshake is a job and internship platform accessible by all UMass Amherst students. Isenberg students are encouraged to consult both IsenbergWorks and Handshake during the job and internship search process. Chase's Isenberg Interns showcases student internship experiences across all business majors and provide insight into the success of our students. Isenberg students have worked with companies such as State Street Corp., Salesforce, J.P. Morgan, TJX, Madison Square Garden and SpaceX, some even before their junior year. Read current features here "During my freshman year, I attend the Chase Career Center career fair and I am so grateful I did because it allowed me to make powerful connections with recruiters at top companies like TJX. Through Chase resources and internships, I received a job offer to become an Allocation Analyst before my senior year event started!" Read more about Erin As the executive director of the Chase Career Center, it is my distinct privilege to welcome you to our office. We have an experienced team of career professionals that is dedicated to serving the career and professional development needs of Isenberg students. It is our philosophy that students should begin the career exploration process early in their academic careers. The Chase Career Center team provides high-quality career services for students seeking internships, cooperative, and/or full-time opportunities. Our primary goal is to help you discover and build a well thought-out career plan that will allow you to develop the essential skills and insights to launch yourself into your optimal career path. Our team works diligently to establish partnerships with recruiters and employers who want to recruit Isenberg students. We facilitate a full range of career skill building programs designed to bring students, alumni, and employers together. Regular events include career fairs, networking events with alumni, employer presentations, and a full year of on campus recruiting activity.  Read more about Nic and the Chase staff here You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.