Jump to navigation No, many current students do not have previous coursework in business. No, many current students do not have previous coursework in business. Full-time Massachusetts state employees, their spouses and unmarried dependent children (through... Full-time Massachusetts state employees, their spouses and unmarried dependent children (through age 25) who meet eligibility and admission requirements will receive 50% reduction of class fees for online courses. For more information visit this site. Yes, you can choose elective courses that will help you get ahead in a particular area of... Yes, you can choose elective courses that will help you get ahead in a particular area of business or earn a specialized degree. An academic advisor can assist you in developing a tailored concentration which would strengthen your skill set in areas of your choice. Focus Areas Available: Business Analytics Entrepreneurship Finance Healthcare Administration Marketing Sport Management No, you must have completed a degree from a 4 year institution to enroll in MBA courses. No, you must have completed a degree from a 4 year institution to enroll in MBA courses. One official transcript from all colleges/universities attended, undergraduate and graduate,... One official transcript from all colleges/universities attended, undergraduate and graduate, where nine (9) or more credits were taken are required. An applicant to the Graduate School must hold a baccalaureate degree earned in the United States from a regionally accredited institution or a comparable non-U.S. degree/diploma before being allowed to enroll in any graduate program at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. Colleges/universities in the United States (US) may submit official transcripts electronically. US institutions that do not manage transcripts electronically and all non-US institutions must mail transcripts to the university Graduate School in a signed and sealed envelope that has not been opened. Any transcript uploaded with the application is considered to be an unofficial transcript. If the official transcripts and/or degree certificate(s) are not in English, our program requires an official credential evaluation from a NACES member in order to evaluate coursework and GPA in the admissions process. If you have any questions regarding this requirement please contact our office for more information. We require official transcripts for all institutions where 9 or more credits were taken. Your transcript may be sent electronically to gradadm@grad.umass.edu or by U.S. mail to the following address: Graduate Student Service Center 534 Goodell Building University of Massachusetts 140 Hicks Way Amherst, MA 01003-9333   In order for courses to be considered for transfers or waivers, please send us a description, a... In order for courses to be considered for transfers or waivers, please send us a description, a syllabus and an official transcript for each course. Please be specific about which Isenberg course you are requesting to have reviewed. Note: The granting of waivers and transfers are at the discretion of the Graduate Programs Office. We prefer to receive these requests via email at grad@isenberg.umass.edu, but we also accept them by fax: (413) 577-2234 or mail to: Graduate Programs Office 121 Presidents Drive Isenberg School of Management University of Massachusetts, Amherst Amherst, MA 01003 Accepted students can defer their acceptance for up to one year with approval of the Associate... Accepted students can defer their acceptance for up to one year with approval of the Associate Dean. Personal essays should be brief; approximately to 1.5-2 pages double spaced. Personal essays should be brief; approximately to 1.5-2 pages double spaced. Acceptance decisions will be emailed by Isenberg MBA admissions. Acceptance decisions will be emailed by Isenberg MBA admissions. A hard copy follow-up will also be sent. The UMass Graduate School will send an official letter of acceptance in the mail and a follow up email to applicants requiring a electronic "confirmation" of acceptance. All applicants to the MBA program will receive an Acknowledgement Letter via email from the... All applicants to the MBA program will receive an Acknowledgement Letter via email from the Graduate Admissions Office which includes your Admissions ID and Access Code. This will enable you to keep track of application materials that have been received. Click here to track the status of your application. TOEFL score (for international applicants only) TOEFL score (for international applicants only) School Code: Isenberg-UMass Amherst – 3917   Minimum scores:   Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) – 600 (250 computer-based score, 100 internet base score)* International English Language Testing System (IELTS) – 8 or above Pearson Test of English – Academic (PTE Academic) – 68 or above   TOEFL waivers apply to applicants who meet at least one of the following criteria: If you’d like to be reviewed for TOEFL waiver eligibility, please submit the required application materials. *For the Master of Finance in Alternative Investments program only, the minimum acceptable TOEFL score in 80. You must earn a degree from a 4 year institution or education that is the equivalent to a 4-year... You must earn a degree from a 4 year institution or education that is the equivalent to a 4-year degree (in some cases a course-by-course evaluation of academic history may be required). Yes, tuition is the same for online courses regardless of state or even country. Yes, tuition is the same for online courses regardless of state or even country. If your transcript is not in English, you must send us a certified translation of your official... If your transcript is not in English, you must send us a certified translation of your official transcript from every non-U.S. undergrad and graduate school attended. Notarized and true attested copies of original academic documents are also accepted. Online MBA application requirements: Online MBA application requirements: Graduate school application, completed online Personal statement Your personal statement should be one to two pages in length, and include information about your past and current academic and professional history, your future goals and reasons for pursuing a MBA, and other pertinent details that will help us evaluate you as a candidate. Official transcripts of all universities/colleges attended You must send the Graduate Admissions Office one official copy of your transcript from every U.S. undergrad and graduate school where you earned six credits or more. The transcript can be sent electronically or by mail. Electronic transcripts Electronic transcripts from US schools can be sent by the originating school to gradadm@grad.umass.edu Mail transcripts to: Graduate Admissions Office 530 Goodell Building University of Massachusetts 140 Hicks Way Amherst, MA 01003-9333 Note: For foreign graduates: notarized and true attested copies of original academic documents are accepted. Two letters of recommendation Your professional recommendations should be written by direct supervisors (current and past), or clients who are familiar with your work. Resume/CV GMAT score and GMAT Waivers School Code: Isenberg-UMass Amherst - 3917 Average Score: The average score for students in the program is 570. GMAT waivers apply to applicants who have earned either: A Master’s Degree from a US accredited institution with an overall GPA of 3.5 or above and 5+ years’ work experience, a Doctoral Degree (JD, MD, PhD, for foreign medical graduates with an ECFMG or Fifth Pathway), or 10+ years post undergraduate professional work experience. TOEFL score (for international applicants only) School Code: Isenberg-UMass Amherst – 3917 Minimum scores: Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) – 600 (250 computer-based score, 100 internet base score) International English Language Testing System (IELTS) – 8 or above Pearson Test of English – Academic (PTE Academic) – 68 or above MBA, Prospective Students, Admissions, Advising, Tricks Application fee: $80 A GMAT or GRE score is required for application to the Isenberg MBA unless a... A GMAT or GRE score is required for application to the Isenberg MBA unless a waiver is granted. Applications are reviewed for the GMAT/GRE waiver once all application materials have been received. To be considered for the GMAT/GRE waiver, leave the application test score section blank. Our office will communicate further instructions upon receipt of your application. GMAT/GRE waivers may apply to applicants who meet one or more of the following criteria: Average GMAT Score: The average score for students in the program is 590. Average GRE Score: The average GRE for the online MBA is 155 Verbal Reasoning and 155 Quantitative Reasoning. You can use this comparison tool to convert your GRE to GMAT score: https://www.ets.org/gre/institutions/about/mba/comparison_tool School Code: Isenberg-UMass Amherst - 3917 *For those students who’ve earned an Undergraduate and Master’s Degree outside of the US: To be considered for a GMAT waiver an official course-by-course evaluation (listing grades and overall GPA) will need to be submitted from an approved NACES evaluation service provider. Applicants commonly use WES or ECE. Along with your evaluation, you will also need to submit official transcripts/marksheets from your institution or notarized “true & attested” copies of originals are also accepted upon submission via US mail. Contact a program information specialist with questions. Average Work Experience: 10 years (minimum 3 years) Average Work Experience: 10 years (minimum 3 years) Average GMAT Score: 570 Average UGPA range: 3.0 - 3.4 Amherst Campus 305 Isenberg School of Management Amherst Campus 305 Isenberg School of Management University of Massachusetts Amherst 121 Presidents Drive Amherst, MA 01003 For information and directions, visit the Robsham Visitors Center Metered parking is available at the Visitor Center Boston Campus The University of Massachusetts Club 225 Franklin Street Boston, MA 02110 For information and directions, click here Free parking is available Springfield Campus UMass Center at Springfield Tower Square 1500 Main Street Springfield, MA 01115 (413) 781-0847 For directions, click here Discounted Parking available - visit Reception Desk for more info Shrewsbury Campus UMass Collaborative Facilities 333 South Street Shrewsbury, MA 01545 (508) 856-5203 For directions, click here Free parking is available Recommendations should be requested from individuals who know you on a professional level and... Recommendations should be requested from individuals who know you on a professional level and well enough to provide specific examples and details regarding your past performance and competencies. If you are a recent college graduate we encourage you to provide one academic and one professional reference. Visit the... Visit the American Council in Education (ACE) website to determine whether your military training courses qualify for credit. Once you determine which courses qualify, send an email to grad@isenberg.umass.edu, including the link to the ACE Course Exhibit web page to be reviewed by an advisor. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.