Schedule 3/6 A young prince tackles the dragon attacks, but why is Captain Vimes suspicious? The star of 'Last of the Summer Wine' and 'Wallace and Gromit' looks back at his career. 3/5 The Belgian sleuth becomes convinced that the murderer is still aboard the train. Michael Bird on the painter Peter Lanyon, who was soaring to fame when his glider crashed. 8/10 Antoinette opens up to her husband Rochester, but the following events lead to a betrayal. 3/12 Marina Warner looks at the world of contemporary storytelling. 3/10 Wrenne confirms that Shardlake will be presented to Henry VIII at Fulford Cross. 3/5 The story of one of the most extraordinary fashion designers of the twentieth century. 3/5 Following a violent encounter at the Karamazov home, Dmitry goes in search of Grushenka. 4/6 Frank Skinner and guests explore funny, odd and interesting moments in history. 6/6 As Rabbi Abraham struggles after his collapse, Rabbi Su meets a hospital doctor. 5/6 The last people on Earth play a murder mystery game, organised by The Stranger. Gaby Roslin hosts the film quiz with impressions by Alistair McGowan and Ronni Ancona. 4/5 The Belgian sleuth discovers that one of the passengers is lying to him. Islington-born Sylvie Simmons talks to Nick Barraclough about her life as a rock writer. 6/6 When the college gets its own radio station, Colin becomes a playwright (of sorts). Tim Vine presents the chat show where the great British public are the stars. 9/13 Barrister Roger Thursby is caught between a landlord and his tenant. 2/3 A look back to the year Nineteen Thirty Foot. 1/6 On Jay Rayner's menu are Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall, Anissa Helou, Matthew Fort. 2/4 With a new girl in town, the clerk knows his office isn't big enough for both of them. 4/5 As Dmitry goes on trial for murder, Alyosha desperately seeks proof of his innocence. 2/3 By AM Bakalar. While having her hair done, Angelika wonders about her self-image. Poet and Visionary William Blake finds himself in present-day Lambeth. 9/13 Barrister Roger Thursby is caught between a landlord and his tenant. 2/3 A look back to the year Nineteen Thirty Foot. 4/5 The Belgian sleuth discovers that one of the passengers is lying to him. Islington-born Sylvie Simmons talks to Nick Barraclough about her life as a rock writer. 9/10 Antoinette returns home distressed. Husband Rochester makes plans to leave the island. 4/12 Marina Warner explores, with other writers, the world of contemporary fiction. 4/10 As the Royal Progress draws closer to York, Shardlake prepares to meet King Henry VIII. 4/5 The story of one of the most extraordinary fashion designers of the twentieth century. 4/5 As Dmitry goes on trial for murder, Alyosha desperately seeks proof of his innocence. 1/6 On Jay Rayner's menu are Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall, Anissa Helou, Matthew Fort. 2/4 With a new girl in town, the clerk knows his office isn't big enough for both of them. 6/6 When the college gets its own radio station, Colin becomes a playwright (of sorts). Tim Vine presents the chat show where the great British public are the stars. 4/6 Captain Vimes tries tracking the dragon, and the Librarian travels in time. Listen live 3/9 Tanika Gupta nominates Rabindranath Tagore. With Matthew Parris and Ketaki Kushari Dyson. 9/13 Barrister Roger Thursby is caught between a landlord and his tenant. 2/3 A look back to the year Nineteen Thirty Foot. 4/5 The Belgian sleuth discovers that one of the passengers is lying to him. Islington-born Sylvie Simmons talks to Nick Barraclough about her life as a rock writer. 2/3 By AM Bakalar. While having her hair done, Angelika wonders about her self-image. Poet and Visionary William Blake finds himself in present-day Lambeth. Tim Vine presents the chat show where the great British public are the stars. Newsjack is a scrapbook sketch show written entirely by the Great British public. From 10.00pm until midnight, seven days a week, the Comedy Club has two hours of comedy. 5/6 Marvel at the monarchy, thanks to a new majestic theme park. 3/6 The sci-fi star probes cloning and what to do with our waste. 4/6 Captain Vimes tries tracking the dragon, and the Librarian travels in time. 3/9 Tanika Gupta nominates Rabindranath Tagore. With Matthew Parris and Ketaki Kushari Dyson. 4/5 The Belgian sleuth discovers that one of the passengers is lying to him. Islington-born Sylvie Simmons talks to Nick Barraclough about her life as a rock writer. 9/10 Antoinette returns home distressed. Husband Rochester makes plans to leave the island. 4/12 Marina Warner explores, with other writers, the world of contemporary fiction. 4/10 As the Royal Progress draws closer to York, Shardlake prepares to meet King Henry VIII. 4/5 The story of one of the most extraordinary fashion designers of the twentieth century. 4/5 As Dmitry goes on trial for murder, Alyosha desperately seeks proof of his innocence. 1/6 On Jay Rayner's menu are Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall, Anissa Helou, Matthew Fort. 2/4 With a new girl in town, the clerk knows his office isn't big enough for both of them. 6/6 When the college gets its own radio station, Colin becomes a playwright (of sorts). Tim Vine presents the chat show where the great British public are the stars. Tomorrow