We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Joshua Hoyos Retweeted The New York Times NYT: Perdue Pharma has reached a settlement in opioid cases, expected to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy imminently. The tentative settlement involves the dissolution of company, the formation of a new one that will continue to sell OxyContin. Sacklers will pay $3b over 7 yrshttps://twitter.com/nytimes/status/1171855442462597122 … Joshua Hoyos added, NYT: Proceeds of the new company’s sales of OxyContin, will go to a public beneficiary company that will pay the plaintiffs. Purdue Pharma also will donate “rescue” drugs. The settlement does not include a statement of wrongdoing. New York Attorney General Letitia James accuses OxyContin maker Purdue Pharma and its owners, the Sackler family, of trying to 'lowball the millions of victims of the opioid crisis.' Full statement:pic.twitter.com/2uo2kE2yIY Julia Lurie Retweeted German Lopez Here's the thing that I especially don't get about the proposed Purdue settlement - doesn't paying states with future OxyContin sales create (ie continue) a pretty bizarre incentive? https://twitter.com/germanrlopez/status/1171875613856206855 …pic.twitter.com/FMUDgTFRqS Julia Lurie added, NEW: Purdue Pharma has tentatively reached the first "global" settlement in the nationwide opioids lawsuit. The deal would reportedly result in the maker of OxyContin entering bankruptcy and the Sackler family owners paying $3 billion over 7 years.https://www.axios.com/purdue-pharma-sacklers-opioid-settlement-6f447b2e-5217-4cd0-9234-23b3444dce35.html?utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=organic … Attorneys representing some 2,000 local governments say they have agreed to a tentative settlement with OxyContin maker Purdue Pharma over the toll of the nation’s opioid crisis.https://to.pbs.org/2LskCzU Nearly half the states and some 2,000 local governments have agreed to a tentative settlement with OxyContin maker Purdue Pharma over the toll of the nation's opioid crisis.https://cbsn.ws/2NRD1YC While the sale of OxyContin generated billions of dollars in profits for Purdue Pharma, the nation's opioid addiction was reaching a crisis; according to @CDCgov, overdose deaths linked to prescription opioids have killed more than 218,000 Americans since the late 1990s.pic.twitter.com/TxXzgPJZQ5 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.