Marketing isn’t simple, and we want you to succeed. Here you’ll find ad options for any budget and expertise level—you can start small or go big. And you can always track how your ads are working and make changes along the way. Communicate with people in familiar ways on Facebook. Whether your business is global or rooted in a local community, you can find your customers here. People come to Instagram to be inspired and discover things they care about—and that includes content from brands and businesses like yours. Whether you’re talking to a loyal customer or someone brand new, Messenger lets you make suggestions, assist sales and offer support—all in one continuous conversation. Businesses love using WhatsApp for the same reason people do—because it’s a simple and trusted way to connect with anyone in the world. Build a business presence, send people information and respond to customers in an app they love to use. Facebook ads work because they’re relevant for people, and easy to create and measure for businesses. Audience Network brings these same powerful features to ads on apps and sites beyond Facebook where people spend their time. Facebook Messenger announced some feature and platform updates last week to improve business interaction quality. Here are the highlights. Facebook is updating its housing, employment and credit ads to help prevent discrimination and support civil rights. We’re introducing two new ad solutions—movie reminder ads and movie showtime ads—to help film studios increase ticket sales and to help people find showtimes for the movies they want to see. We're rolling out lead generation in Messenger globally for businesses. Learn more about automated question experiences for your customers. Get tips to start planning and preparing your Facebook and Instagram Holiday marketing strategy to be successful this season both online, and in-store. Integrating testing into your marketing strategy helps you make data-driven decisions, and discover more opportunities to reach your business goals. Discover updates to several of our campaign creation and management tools including improvements to Business Manager, simpler feed ad formats and refined targeting options.  