Jump to navigation Our graduate faculty, through the Plant & Soil Sciences Graduate Program, provides training, experience, and mentoring in the full spectrum of agricultural and environmental study, including plant physiology, molecular biology, plant/pathogen ecology, production technology, soil science, agricultural marketing, integrated pest management, entomology, etc. Students pursuing a thesis-based M.S. or Ph.D. degree should first contact a member of our faculty to determine the compatibility of his or her research with your interests and, for Ph.D. candidates, to determine the availability of funding. Individuals who have not made such a connection likely will not be considered for acceptance. If you are uncertain as to whom might be the best match for your interests, contact our Graduate Program Director, Dr. Masoud Hashemi. Students interested in pursuing a fifth-year M.S. or a non-thesis M.S. should contact our Graduate Program Director, Dr. Masoud Hashemi to discuss degree options. Those interested in the off-campus M.S. in Soil Science should contact Dr. Baoshan Xing or Dr. Mickey Spokas. Applications must be completed online via the UMass Amherst Graduate School Website. The University requires submission of GRE scores and letters of recommendation along with a completed application form for admission. Applications will be reviewed by a committee comprised of members of our graduate faculty. The application deadline for fall admissions is February 1 and for spring admission is October 1. All applications, however, will be reviewed for potential acceptance even if submitted after the deadline. M.S. students sometimes receive teaching or research assistantships, but most do not. Ph.D. students generally receive a combination of research and teaching assistantships and fellowships. Ph.D. applications received by the deadline will be eligible for a broader range of funding opportunities. Please note that School funding is not available for students who begin in the Spring semester. If you are interested in beginning your graduate work in the Spring semester, please contact your potential advisor and make sure that full funding can be provided by other sources. Some students may be interested in working with our faculty to pursue graduate degrees in one of the University's interdepartmental graduate programs: Plant Biology Molecular & Cellular Biology Organismic & Evolutionary Biology Sustainability Science Plant & Soil Science Graduate Degrees Thesis-based M.S. Non-thesis M.S. -- On-campus Non-thesis M.S. -- Off-campus Soils Ph.D. Fill out our contact form or call one of our advisors at 413-545-2222 to ask your questions, schedule a tour, or get more information! ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact 