Jump to navigation  Isenberg’s graduate options will help you take your education and your career to the next level. We offer a unique and life-changing experience. You’ll gain a wealth of knowledge and skills, a vigorous network of peers, professionals and faculty, and the confidence and competence to tackle your next challenge.   We offer an unparalleled educational experience—superior instruction from expert faculty, an innovative, flexible learning format, and a strong commitment to graduating students who value community, collaboration, passion and pride.  The Isenberg On-Campus MBA program is a rigorous, two-year residential program on our flagship campus in Amherst, MA. Accepted students are awarded a fellowship that fully funds the program, and they enjoy small class sizes, world-renowned faculty and a uniquely supportive culture. LEARN MORE Isenberg’s Online MBA option is ideal for those who want to earn a degree without taking time off. The program is rigorous, yet flexible, and our online classes have the same curriculum and accomplished faculty as full-time classes. Enjoy a collaborative learning environment, an outstanding advisors, and no residential requirement. LEARN MORE The Master of Finance in Alternative Investments (MFAI) is a 1-year degree program is designed to deliver the specialized skills and expertise needed to succeed in one of the fastest-growing yet most complex segments of the asset management industry. LEARN MORE Isenberg’s MS in Accounting allows students to earn a graduate degree in as few as eight months. Our students gain the skills for a successful accounting career and many graduate to work for major firms. Enjoy expert faculty with professional experience. If you don't have an accounting degree, Isenberg offers a transistions program to qualify you for the MSA. LEARN MORE The MSB&A is a 1 year accelerated program that provides graduates of non-business majors with the business analytics tools and techniques that are increasingly necessary to be effective in organizations of all kinds. MSB&A graduates will learn the vocabulary of big data within a curriculum that covers core business management knowledge such as accounting, finance, operations, and marketing. LEARN MORE The Mark H. McCormack Department of Sport Management's MS in sport management is one of the most respected programs of its kind in the country. The program is housed at Isenberg and offers cutting-edge curriculum that prepares students for a broad range of careers. Enjoy a powerful alumni network, professionally diverse faculty, and access to industry professionals. Learn more If you have a very specialized area of interest or career goal in mind, a dual degree may be a great option for you. Isenberg partners with other departments to offer several MBA/MS Dual Degree program options to consider, such as Sport Management, Public Policy & Administration, and Engineering. LEARN MORE You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.