Need some help in your navigation through ANSI Online? Choose one of the main topics below or scroll through the complete list for advice and guidance on the actual use of our site. You can also visit our Organization Chart or the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) pages to find more quick and easy answers about ANSI and our activities. If you need additional assistance, please contact us. A: ANSI Online consists of three major components: A: The ANSI Online Public Document Library contains documents that are available to anyone coming to the site. This Library contains documents such as ANSI’s Constitution and Bylaws, and the various procedural documents that govern the Institute and its work. A: The Members Only Document Library contains information available only to ANSI members or registered constituents, and requires a username and password to use. A: As a value-added service to ANSI’s members, access to certain information available via ANSI Online is restricted. The username and password is linked to a user profile that controls access to information for stored on the site and prevents non-members from receiving the value of this data. Certain pages will be available to all members and member representatives, while others will be restricted to the individual members of ANSI’s various boards, committees and forums. A: No problem! If you click here, you can enter your last name and e-mail address and we'll send you your password. You can also find this page from the Membership Sign-in page. A: Your user name cannot be changed. When you log-on for the first time, you will be asked to provide a password. To change your password, click here. If you are not signed-in, you will be asked for your current ID and password. Once you are signed in, you can use the form to change your password. You can also find this page from the Membership Sign-in page. A: At this time, member profiles are not available on the website. A: Should you choose to resign your membership in ANSI or any of its boards, committees, councils or forums, upon notice of this to ANSI’s member services team your user profile will be updated and access to the related member’s only information will be turned off. You will continue to have access to the public pages of the site and, because your e-mail address will remain in our system for future reference, you may continue to receive periodic messages from ANSI. A: If your organization’s membership in ANSI expires, or if you are no longer a member of an ANSI board, committee, council or forum, then your access to the related member’s only information will be denied. You will continue to have access to the public pages of the site and, because your e-mail address will remain in our system for future reference, you may continue to receive periodic messages from ANSI. A: There are actually two different registrations on ANSI Online: Whichever way you choose, as soon as we get the word from you, we'll be happy to honor your request. A: Though ANSI may periodically issue e-mail announcements to all of the registered users of ANSI Online, we will never sell or make available to third parties the personal contact information of our members without their express permission. For more information, please see our privacy policy. A: The ANSI Webstore is currently the only portion of our site that relies upon a secure server and automated credit or debit card authorization service to process business transactions. For security reasons, this system will store approval codes, but not credit card numbers. Credit card information must be re-entered for all future eSS transactions. No other subscription, registration or membership pages on this site are currently set up to automatically process credit card information. In those situations where payment information is required, alternate instructions will be provided. A: The Search function on the top of each page on this site will search both the full text of the Public Document Library and also the HTML pages of ANSI Online, with the exception of the News Articles and the Events Calendar. These pages have there own search functions. The News Articles search can be found on the Latest Headlines page; and the Events Calendar search can be found on the Meetings and Events page. There is a separate search interface for the ANSI Members Only Document Library. A: Documents in the Document Libraries have two kinds of indexing: full text; and value-added metadata. The simple search, which is the default, searches both indices. The advanced search option allows you to search against specific fields in the metadata to help narrow your results to the most pertinent documents. A: This is a question that we are often asked. Though the electronic development and dissemination of standards has certainly helped to reduce costs such as printing, warehousing and shipping of hard-copy standards, most expenses related to the development and maintenance of a standard remain regardless of the method of distribution. Click here for more information. A: ANSI collects sales tax where ever it is legally obligated to do so. If your organization is tax-exempt, you will be able to supply your exemption certificate during checkout. A: ANSI has an inventory of more than 75,000 standards available electronically via its Webstore. You can purchase and download immediately an electronic version of any of these standards. If a standard is not available in an electronic format, or if you prefer to purchase a hard-copy version of a standard, you may contact Document Center, Inc.; Document Engineering Co., Inc.; Global Document Engineering; or ILI Infodisk. A: You may obtain a hard copy version of a standard from any of the below listed vendors: Document Center Inc. 111 Industrial Road, Suite 9, Belmont, CA 94002 www.document-center.com Phone: 650.591.7600 Fax: 650.591.7617 E-Mail: info@document-center.com DECO - Document Engineering Co., Inc. 15210 Stagg Street, Van Nuys, CA 91405 www.doceng.com Phone: 800.MIL.SPEC or 818.782.1010 Fax: 818.782.2374 E-Mail: doceng@doceng.com IHS Inc. 15 Inverness Way East, Englewood, CO 80112 www.global.ihs.com Phone: 800.854.7179 or 303.397.7956 Fax: 303.397.2740 E-mail: global@ihs.com ILI Infodisk, Inc. 610 Winters Avenue, Paramus, NJ 07652 www.ili-info.com Phone: 201.986.1131 Fax: 201.986.7886 E-Mail: sales@ili-info.com A: The ANSI Webstore is a business-to-consumer site providing immediate access to an ever-expanding inventory of standards available in an electronic format. A: You can purchase an electronic copGlobal Engineering Documentsy of a standard through the ANSI Webstore by following these instructions. You can also download the file with the following instructions within the seven day download period: Click on the download button in the top navigation bar at the top of the webstore page after completing your order. Move your curser over the Document# or Document Title option. You can either right or left click on your mouse to download and save the document. If you right click, you should see the "Save Target As" option. Click on that option and you will then see a "Save As" dialog box. Please make sure that the file type is either a PDF or ZIP file. You'll be able to select the location and file name to save the document. If you left click, the file will open in your latest edition of Adobe Reader. You can click on the disk icon on the Adobe navigation bar, or click on the "Save" option on the File pull down menu. You'll get the "Save a Copy" by clicking on either selection. You'll be able to select the location and file name to save the document. Adobe Reader 6 or 7: If you've purchased documents from the AGA, AIAG, ASME, AWS, BHMA, CITRA, IESNA, IPC, MSS, NFPA (National Fire Protection Association), or NSF collections and have Adobe Reader 6 or 7, please follow these instructions: To download the file, left click on the Document# or Document Title. The PDF will open in Adobe Reader. At the same time, the file will be saved in the My Bookshelf or Digital Editions section of your Adobe Reader. To access the file, click on the File drop down menu within your Adobe Reader. Click on "My Bookshelf" or "My Digital Editions" and click on the file you wish to view. Adobe Reader 8: If you've purchased documents from the AGA, AIAG, ASME, AWS, BHMA, CITRA, IESNA, IPC, MSS, NFPA (National Fire Protection Association), or NSF collections and have Adobe Reader 8, please follow these instructions: Go to http://webstore.ansi.org/, click on the Download link, left click on the document you would like to download. The file should automatically open in Digital Editions within Adobe Reader. NOTICE TO ALL ANSI CUSTOMERS WHO HAVE UPGRADED OR ARE PLANNING ON UPGRADING TO ACROBAT VERSION 8 REGARDING LIMITED FUNCTIONALITY OF PDF DOCUMENTS: ANSI is in the process of implementing new encryption technology for it’s electronic PDF product line which will lead to a smoother customer experience. This is scheduled to take place within 2007. In the meantime, please be advised of possible loss in PDF functionality in the Digital Editions Reader – the product being offered by Adobe as the means for allowing continued access to product encrypted under current technology. Digital Editions is a beta and while Adobe continues to (dynamically) update and improve upon performance, current tests have shown a loss in areas of functionality such as the cut/paste feature. In order to maintain all the functionality currently provided in our PDF product line, customers must use Adobe Reader 6.0.1 Release 11/03/03 through Version 7.0 (including all 7.0 updates) only. You might be asked to Launch Digital Editions. If you have not activated your Digital Editions, please follow these instructions: Launch Adobe Reader 8 by clicking on the red icon on your desktop, Click on the button called “Launch Digital Editions” in the middle of the page. Digital Editions should open with your file(s) ready for viewing. If you didn't find an answer from the information above, please let us know the specific problem. Click here to contact us. A: Simply follow these instructions: NOTE: Please make certain that your cookies are enabled; the store uses cookies to track purchases and traffic on the site. A: You do not have to register to search for standards. However, you are required to register as a shopper in order to retain correct purchasing history A: Go to http://webstore.ansi.org. Click on the option "Account" and then "Change Profile" on the navigation bar on the top of the Webstore page. Make the necessary changes to your information and click on "Update". A: If your organization is already an ANSI member, a notification was sent out to the designated ANSI member contact for your organization. This notice included the member discount code unique to your organization. To find out if your company is an ANSI member, just click onto the link for the ANSI member roster. If your company is a member, you should e-mail our customer service department to find out how you can begin saving today. For more information regarding ANSI Member Discounts, click here. A: The http://webstore.ansi.org has over 75,000 documents from 80 different standards developers, and it is growing. To see the complete list of developers, go to http://webstore.ansi.org and use the pull down window to scroll through the list of developers. A: ANSI Online has been built with some of the latest Microsoft technology with different security features than the ANSI Webstore (eSS). Also, registration on ANSI Online is only available to ANSI members. Our long-term goal is to upgrade the eSS to the same technology platform as ANSI Online. At that time, we will be able to consolidate the registration. A: ANSI accepts Mastercard, Visa, American Express and the GSA SmartPay card. Please enter your credit card information and billing address after checking to make sure that your order is correct. When you have verified all your information, please click the button marked "purchase." A: If you're having trouble with your billing information not being accepted or saved, it could be for a few reasons: Try re-entering your information or using a different form of payment. If you still experience problems, please contact us. Other contact information: On the Internet: http://webstore.ansi.org E-mail: ansionline@ansi.org Tel: 212.642.4980 Fax: 212.302.1286 A: In addition to credit card purchases, customers with Deposit Accounts may obtain the inventory of documents available via the ANSI Webstore. A: Deposit Account customers maintain a minimum $200 cash balance with ANSI. When an authorized party purchases individual copies of electronic documents, the transaction amount is automatically deducted from the available balance. Use of a credit card is not required to complete each transaction. For more information, please go to ANSI eSS Deposit Accounts. A: Yes – on select documents. ANSI members can receive up to 25% savings off the single-user purchase of thousands of qualified standards within the Webstore inventory. Members can receive their discounts on purchases by following these instructions. To find out if your company is a member, just click here for the ANSI member roster. If you don't have your company's member code, send an e-mail request to info@ansi.org. If you are a current eSS registered shopper with your cookies enabled, you will be directed to your shopping basket, which is where you will enter in your member discount code. Your member discount code will be stored on your profile for future use A: Please make your selection carefully. ANSI DOES NOT GIVE REFUNDS NOR ACCEPT RETURNS OR CANCELLATIONS on electronic documents purchased through the ANSI Webstore. ALL SALES ARE FINAL. If you are unsure of your selection or if you need further information, please feel free to contact our customer service department either by telephone at 1.212.642.4980, or by e-mail at info@ansi.org BEFORE you place your order. A: All sales from the ANSI Online Webstore are considered individual purchases. The purchased documents cannot be copied or redistributed without an appropriate license agreement. The information contained in a standard is the intellectual property of the developing organization. When others want to use this property, they are expected to pay a fair value for it. If incorporating the content of a standard is deemed necessary in the development of a product or service, obtaining this intellectual property should be seen as no different from obtaining any other component of the product. A: What’s New? is a free, bi-weekly electronic newsletter that keeps ANSI members and constituents up to date on the latest standards and conformity assessment news, events and publications. This e-mail provides a summary of the Institute’s top headlines and provides convenient links to the ANSI Online website for more information. A: When you are added to ANSI Online as a member of the Institute or a registered member of an ANSI board, committee, council or forum, your e-mail address is automatically added to the distribution list for that particular constituency, as well as to the distribution list of “What’s New”. Others may subscribe by sending an e-mail with their name, title, organization and e-mail address to pr@ansi.org A: If you decide to opt out of the “What’s New” e-mail list, you will be reducing the value of the information services that ANSI provides. However, at any time that you choose to opt out, simply send an e-mail to pr@ansi.org or follow the “unsubscribe” link at the bottom of any issue of the newsletter. A: The ANSI Online Webstore uses cookies to track purchases and traffic on the site. A cookie is a bit of information that our server will store on your computer; it will help the store identify who you are when you visit the site. It also helps keep track of the standards that you want to purchase as you go through the store. In order to enable cookies, i.e. set up your browser to accept cookies, you need to figure out what kind of browser you have. Instructions for enabling cookies for both Internet Explorer and Netscape are shown below: Credit Card Customers You can download the file with the following instructions within the seven day download period: Click on the download button in the top navigation bar at the top of the webstore page after completing your order. Move your curser over the Document# or Document Title option. You can either right or left click on your mouse to download and save the document. If you right click, you should see the "Save Target As" option. Click on that option and you will then see a "Save As" dialog box. Please make sure that the file type is either a PDF or ZIP file. You'll be able to select the location and file name to save the document. If you left click, the file will open in your latest edition of Adobe Reader. You can click on the disk icon on the Adobe navigation bar, or click on the "Save" option on the File pull down menu. You'll get the "Save a Copy" by clicking on either selection. You'll be able to select the location and file name to save the document. Adobe Reader 6 or 7: If you've purchased documents from the AGA, AIAG, ASME, AWS, BHMA, CITRA, IESNA, IPC, MSS, NFPA (National Fire Protection Association), or NSF collections and have Adobe Reader 6 or 7, please follow these instructions: To download the file, left click on the Document# or Document Title. The PDF will open in Adobe Reader. At the same time, the file will be saved in the My Bookshelf or Digital Editions section of your Adobe Reader. To access the file, click on the File drop down menu within your Adobe Reader. Click on "My Bookshelf" or "My Digital Editions" and click on the file you wish to view. Adobe Reader 8: If you've purchased documents from the AGA, AIAG, ASME, AWS, BHMA, CITRA, IESNA, IPC, MSS, NFPA (National Fire Protection Association), or NSF collections and have Adobe Reader 8, please follow these instructions: Go to http://www.ansi.org, click on Webstore link, click on the Download link, left click on the document you would like to download. The file should automatically open in Digital Editions within Adobe Reader. NOTICE TO ALL ANSI CUSTOMERS WHO HAVE UPGRADED OR ARE PLANNING ON UPGRADING TO ACROBAT VERSION 8 REGARDING LIMITED FUNCTIONALITY OF PDF DOCUMENTS: ANSI is in the process of implementing new encryption technology for it’s electronic PDF product line which will lead to a smoother customer experience. This is scheduled to take place within 2007. In the meantime, please be advised of possible loss in PDF functionality in the Digital Editions Reader – the product being offered by Adobe as the means for allowing continued access to product encrypted under current technology. Digital Editions is a beta and while Adobe continues to (dynamically) update and improve upon performance, current tests have shown a loss in areas of functionality such as the cut/paste feature. In order to maintain all the functionality currently provided in our PDF product line, customers must use Adobe Reader 6.0.1 Release 11/03/03 through Version 7.0 (including all 7.0 updates) only. You might be asked to Launch Digital Editions. If you have not activated your Digital Editions, please follow these instructions: Launch Adobe Reader 8 by clicking on the red icon on your desktop, Click on the button called “Launch Digital Editions” in the middle of the page. Digital Editions should open with your file(s) ready for viewing. If you didn't find an answer from the information above, please let us know the specific problem. Click here to contact us. Deposit Account Customers To download a file, please follow these instructions: Go to http://webstore.ansi.org. Click on “Download” on the top navigation bar. Move your curser over the Document#, Document Title or Download option. You can either right or left click on your mouse to download and save the document. If you right click, you should see the “Save Target As” option. Click on that option and you will then see a “Save As” dialog box. Please make sure that the file type is either a PDF or ZIP file. You’ll be able to select the location and file name to save the document. If you left click, the file will open in your latest edition of Adobe Reader. You can click on the disk icon on the Adobe navigation bar or the “Save” option in the File pull down menu. You’ll get the “Save a Copy” dialog box by clicking on either selection. You’ll be able to select the location and file name to save the document. If you’ve purchased documents from the MSS, BHMA, NFPA (National Fire Protection Association), or NSF collections, you will need Adobe Reader 6.0.1 or higher. Please follow these instructions: Go to http://webstore.ansi.org. Click on “Download” on the top navigation bar. To download the file, left click on the Document# or Document Title. The PDF will open in Adobe Reader. At the same time, the file will be saved in the My Bookshelf or Digital Editions section of your Adobe Reader. To access the file, click on the File drop down menu within your Adobe Reader. Click on “My Bookshelf” or “My Digital Editions” and click on the file you wish to view. To download a file, please follow these instructions: Go to http://webstore.ansi.org. Click on “Download” on the top navigation bar. Move your curser over the Document#, Document Title or Download option. You can either right or left click on your mouse to download and save the document. If you right click, you should see the “Save Link Target As” option. Click on that option and you will then see a “Save As” dialog box. Please make sure that the file type is either a PDF or ZIP file. You’ll be able to select the location and file name to save the document. If you left click, the file will open in your latest edition of Adobe Reader. You can click on “Save a Copy” in your Adobe Reader or the “Save Page As” option in the File pull down menu. If you click on “Save Page As”, the “Save As” dialog box will appear. You’ll be able to select the location and file name to save the document. If you’ve purchased documents from the MSS, BHMA, NFPA (National Fire Protection Association), or NSF collections, you will need Adobe Reader 6.0.1 or higher. Please follow these instructions: Go to http://webstore.ansi.org. Click on “Download” on the top navigation bar. To download the file, left click on the Document# or Document Title. The PDF will open in Adobe Reader. At the same time, the file will be saved in the My Bookshelf or Digital Editions section of your Adobe Reader. To access the file, click on the File drop down menu within your Adobe Reader. Click on “My Bookshelf” or “My Digital Editions” and click on the file you wish to view. A: Adobe's Portable Document Format (PDF) is a preferred file format for electronic standards and other documents distributed via the ANSI website because it preserves the look and style of the document. PDF also reduces the file size thereby shortening the download time. PDF documents are not editable, nor do they permit selecting for cutting and pasting text. They do permit printing and searching on the full text. No password is required to open the files. Some of our older standards are scanned at 300 dpi and converted to PDF+Text. This is only done when an original, electronic source file is not available. We are working closely with developers to track down electronic text which we may not have had access to during production. This is due to a variety of factors, including platform and operating system (OS) issues between author and our production team. In the late 80s and early 90s, authoring file formats (and OSs and fonts, etc.) were much less stable than they are now). Most of our newer documents are created from electronic sources, and we make every effort to get the electronic source. A: Adobe Acrobat (version 5.0 or higher) is required to view standard purchased from the Webstore and many other documents posted to ANSI Online. A free version of the Acrobat Reader software is available from the Adobe website: If you have any problems with the Acrobat Reader, please visit Adobe's extensive customer support site. A: Many files available for download from ANSI have been “zipped” (i.e., compressed) to save space. Zip files are "archives" used for distributing and storing one or more files. Zip files make it easy to group files and make transporting and copying these files faster. WinZip makes it easy for Windows users to work with archives. WinZip features an intuitive point-and-click drag-and-drop interface for viewing, running, extracting, adding, deleting, and testing files in archives with a standard Windows interface. WinZip provides the same "friendly face" for all the aforementioned archive formats. You can download a fully functional evaluation version from the WinZip Download Page, or place an order for the registered version from the WinZip Ordering Information Page. A: If you’re having trouble with the speed of our site, it’s usually one of three things: If you’ve done all this and continue to have difficulties, please contact us and we’ll be happy to help. 