Jump to navigation A Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) degree gives students the competitive business skills that are essential for success. We blend foundational business classes with coursework that simulates real-world business experiences. Our BBA program is AACSB-accredited and offers five majors: Accounting, Finance, Management, Marketing, and Operations & Information Management. Our undergraduate curriculum instills core business knowledge, as well as perspectives that embrace the global economy, sustainability and socially responsible decision making. Students will gain a firm business foundation while also exploring topics related to their majors and taking electives that complement their academic pursuits. General Education Courses: Approximately 10-12 courses. General Education courses provide you with a common, broad-based, well-rounded experience by exposing you to a variety of curriculum areas. These separate but complementary experiences will give you a quality education, putting you on a path for an exciting career and a productive life. A full list of specific GenEd requirements for the BBA is included in each of the major checklists below. Isenberg Core Courses: Business courses designed to build competency in core skills such as microeconomics, macroeconomics, calculus, statistics, corporate finance, principles of management, fundamentals of marketing, and introduction to operations management. A full list of specific BBA core course requirements is included in each of the major checklists below. Breadth Requirement Courses: 21 credits in non-business electives are necessary to complete the BBA degree. These elective courses can be focused on achieving a minor or certificate. Major Required Courses: 6-10 courses for completion depending on your major, see major checklists below. updated 2018 updated 2018 updated 2018 updated 2018 updated 2018  Accounting Finance Hospitality & Tourism Management Management Marketing Operations & Information Management  You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.