Our company  Technology Lead Technology Lead Parag is the technology lead, responsible for Twitter’s technical strategy and overseeing machine learning and AI across the consumer, revenue, and science teams. Since joining Twitter in 2011, Parag has led efforts on scaling Twitter Ads systems, as well as reaccelerating user growth by improving Home timeline relevance. Prior to joining Twitter, Parag did research in large-scale data management with collaborators at Microsoft Research, Yahoo! Research, and AT&T Labs. He holds a bachelor’s degree from IIT Bombay and a Ph.D. in computer science from Stanford University.  People and Marketing Lead People and Marketing Lead Leslie Berland is the people and marketing lead responsible for Twitter’s global consumer, product, and sales marketing and communications. As head of people, Leslie leads Twitter's human resources, recruitment, and learning and organizational development teams. Prior to joining the company in 2016, she was executive vice president, global advertising, marketing and digital partnerships at American Express. After joining American Express in 2005, Leslie led a global team responsible for creating marketplace demand and driving commerce through differentiated products, marketing, and customer experiences globally. As a member of the company’s global management team, Leslie oversaw advertising, media, sponsorships, content, brand identity, and digital partnerships. Earlier in her career, Leslie led PR and online communications strategies for global brands on the agency side. Leslie earned a B.S. from Boston University’s College of Communications. Product Lead Product Lead Kayvon Beykpour leads Twitter’s product team, responsible for its product strategy and development. Previously, he was responsible for integrating Twitter’s live video products, optimizing video to best serve every customer and creating a world-class product experience. Kayvon co-founded Periscope, a live video platform where people can create, watch, discover and share live video, which was acquired by Twitter in 2015. Prior to Periscope, he co-founded Terriblyclever Design LLC, a software company that was sold to Blackboard Inc. Following the acquisition, Kayvon led Blackboard’s mobile division for four years where he grew its team from five to more than 100 employees and helped the company become one of the most downloaded apps in the education industry. Kayvon attended Stanford and graduated with a degree in computer science.  Head of Design and Research Head of Design and Research Dantley Davis leads design and research at Twitter. Prior to joining Twitter, Dantley was at Facebook, where he led product design for Stories, News Feed, and Video. He spent seven years at Netflix, where he was responsible for design and product strategy for television and mobile experiences. His work transformed streaming user interfaces across the SVOD industry. Dantley received his undergrad degree and MBA from the University of San Francisco. Customers Lead Customers Lead Matt leads Twitter’s customer-facing operations, overseeing the company’s ad revenue organizations including global advertising sales, global content partnerships, live content and revenue operations, and customer experience. Prior to joining Twitter, Matt served in various leadership roles at Google. Matt also worked at The Weather Channel companies, leading marketing solutions for their largest revenue teams. Matt holds a B.A. in English from Georgetown University and is an inductee in the Advertising Hall of Achievement. CEO CEO Jack Dorsey co-founded Twitter Inc. in 2006, and returned as chief executive officer in September 2015. Additionally, Jack co-founded Square, where he serves as CEO and chairman. Revenue Product Lead Revenue Product Lead Bruce Falck is the revenue product lead, overseeing the strategy and execution of advertising products for marketers on Twitter. For over two decades, Bruce Falck has built a deep understanding of monetization and digital advertising. He was most recently CEO of Turn which sold to Singtel/Amobee. Prior to Turn he was COO of BrightRoll, the leading programmatic video ads platform, which sold to Yahoo. He also spent eight years at Google, where he helped build and lead multiple billion-dollar-plus advertising businesses including the Google Display Network, DoubleClick Bid Manager (DBM), and Google’s Advertising Exchange. Bruce graduated from Stellenbosch University in South Africa with a degree in computer science.  Lead Counsel Lead Counsel Vijaya Gadde is Twitter’s legal, public policy, and trust and safety lead. She previously served as a legal director at Twitter, where she managed the international and corporate legal teams. Prior to joining Twitter in 2011, Vijaya was senior director, legal at Juniper Networks; previously, for nearly a decade, she was an associate at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati. While at WSGR, Vijaya acted as counsel to the New York Stock Exchange’s Proxy Working Group and Commission on Corporate Governance. Vijaya earned a J.D. from New York University School of Law and a B.S. in industrial and labor relations from Cornell University. Engineering Lead Engineering Lead Michael Montano leads Twitter’s global engineering team. Before joining Twitter, he co-founded BackType to focus on organizing online conversations and helping people follow what was being talked about. The company created and open-sourced the Apache Storm project, a distributed realtime computation system. BackType was acquired by Twitter in 2011. Since joining Twitter, Michael has led teams across the platform, advertiser products and the consumer product. Michael grew up in Canada and studied Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Toronto. CFO CFO Ned Segal is Twitter's chief financial officer, overseeing accounting, business development, corporate development, corporate security, financial planning and analysis, investor relations, internal audit, real estate and workplace, and tax and treasury for Twitter. Prior to joining Twitter, Ned was senior vice president of finance for Intuit's Small Business Group. He has also served as chief financial officer of RPX, the leader in patent risk management solutions to technology companies around the world, and spent 17 years at Goldman Sachs, most recently as managing director, head of global software investment banking. Ned resides in San Francisco with his wife and three children. Focusing on growth while maintaining an open platform demands a skilled executive team that embraces a challenge. It also requires a board of directors that promotes our mission as well as protects our financial goals. At Twitter, we are fortunate to have both. Do work that matters © 2019 Twitter, Inc. By using Twitter’s services you agree to our Cookies Use. We use cookies for purposes including analytics, personalisation, and ads.