Apply to a graduate program at UMass Amherst using the secure online application. Make sure you review the admissions requirements below. Please consult your program's page for additional instructions and deadline information. Admissions into a graduate degree is a process shared by the UMass Graduate School and the graduate program. To be considered for graduate admission, applicants must meet the requirements of the Graduate School and of the graduate program. Visit the graduate program’s website for any additional requirements. Note that some programs may specify additional material (e.g., portfolio, auditions, test scores) which requires preparation. Links to program websites are listed in the program pages. Application requirements differ between graduate programs. Be sure to check your program’s page for specific admission requirements. The non-refundable $80 application fee is payable online via credit card or by check drawn on a U.S. bank (made payable to UMass Amherst). Please submit your transcripts from all colleges/universities attended, undergraduate and graduate, where nine (9) or more credits were earned. Unofficial transcripts uploaded to the Additional Materials page of your application are acceptable. Upon admittance, official transcripts will need to be submitted, either electronically or in paper format, directly by each institution's registrar to the Graduate Student Service Center at gradadm@grad.umass.edu. You may submit these either by entering them directly into your online application, or by uploading the PDF files and attaching them to your application. Most programs require a minimum of two letters of recommendation, but some programs require more. Please consult your program's page for the specific requirement. After submission of the electronic application, we send an email to each reference with instructions on how to electronically deliver the recommendation to the Graduate School. All recommendations are non-confidential unless the applicant waives their right of access. All applicants applying as a Massachusetts resident or for the New England Regional Student Program must complete and sign a Residency Statement for that application to be fully processed. The Certification of Residency form is automated into the signature process for the application. Applicants whose first language is not English must demonstrate their English proficiency by submitting scores from a standardized English Language Proficiency Test. This is not required of U.S. citizens or non-U.S. citizens who hold U.S. Permanent Resident Status. Please consult the International Applicants page for more details. Official test scores must be transmitted electronically from the test agency to the University of Massachusetts Amherst Graduate School. The Institutional Code for the University of Massachusetts Amherst is 3917. If asked for a departmental code use 00. If you are applying to a program that requires the GRE or GMAT, the Graduate School will waive this requirement under the following circumstances:? a JD, PhD, or MD has been earned in the U.S. from a regionally accredited institution and the Graduate School has proof of the earned degree; or if an applicant has earned an international MD degree and the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) certificate has been obtained and documentation of both are on file with the Graduate Admissions Office.? If you do not fall under any of these categories, waiving the GRE or GMAT requirement is at the discretion of the academic program to which you are applying.? Please contact the academic program for more information about their GRE or GMAT requirement. Please consult your program's page for deadline information. Application deadlines for Summer and Fall admission vary by program. For Spring admission, the deadline is October 1 for all programs which offer entrance in January. Note that some programs only accept fall applications. If your application is filed after the deadline, it will be processed for your program's next entrance period. Your application will, however, immediately be sent to the appropriate graduate program. That program's admissions committee has the option to evaluate your credentials for the original entrance period for which you had applied, but there is no obligation for them to do so. However, the committee's ability to evaluate late applications depends partly on the completeness of your application materials and whether or not there is any room within the program's admission allotment. Applicants in the following categories may qualify for a Graduate School application fee waiver: UMass Amherst accepts students from all over the United States into online programs and classes. Please see below for important information that may pertain to you, as well as check your program's website for the most up-to-date information on additional restrictions. UMass Amherst operates distance education classes and programs for out-of-state students under the terms and provisions of SARA. Please see the SARA website for a list of participating states and territories. The state of California allows all public institutions to offer distance education to its residents. The College of Nursing at UMass Amherst is authorized to accept applications or enrollments for online degree or certificate programs from residents of most states. There are some restrictions, so please check with the College of Nursing for the most recent updates. We’re here to help! Please email the Graduate Student Service Center at gradadm@grad.umass.edu, or call us at (413) 545-0722 if you need more assistance. Learn more about becoming an International Student. Learn more about becoming a Non-Degree Student. You must provide separate applications and fees for each program, but only one set of credentials (e.g. transcripts, recommendations, etc.). Your goal of attending graduate school at UMass Amherst is within your reach. Learn more about financial assistance and tuition and fees for graduate students, and be sure to check your program’s page for funding opportunities.