The target readership is the WMO scientific community, with extended outreach to the broader informed public. The aim is to inspire readers to improve their operations and reach out to their user communities, by providing interviews, features, case studies and best practices in the areas of weather, climate and water. The target audience is global and interdisciplinary. The Bulletin is disseminated to National Meteorological and Hydrological Services in the 193 WMO Member countries and territories, as well as national, regional and academic scientific institutions and media. It promotes WMO programmes, projects and events. Authors are encouraged to write with the readership in mind and to disseminate the online version to their networks. Each issue is planned around a given theme, developed in consultation with the WMO Bulletin Editorial Board. Together, the articles provide a clear message by outlining an issue and providing insight and examples to address its various aspects. Communication techniques are used to maximize each edition as a whole as well as individual contributions. Storylines outline trends, challenges and opportunities and provide insight and examples that may encourage others to adopt similar approaches in their work. Messaging is developed to help National Meteorological and Hydrological Services to communicate more effectively with their constituents. As a result, the shelf life of thematic WMO Bulletin issues spans many years. The Bulletin addresses a wide range of scientific disciplines as well as the informed public. Highly scientific/technical material is not appropriate. Rather, the article offers the author(s) an opportunity to share a point of view based on research and/or experience. The story to be communicated in each article is told in a combination of text and images. Authors should keep in mind that the online version has a potentially large and varied audience. The majority of readers consults the English edition, and are not native English speakers. Please keep metaphors and colloquialisms to a minimum. Conclusions and recommendations should be culturally appropriate for a global audience. Articles span all aspects of meteorology, climatology, hydrology, the environment and related fields. Original articles are preferred. They should be in an accessible style and be based on substantive argument, backed by research and/or experience. A good source for articles is presentations; substantive material is often prepared with the aim of communicating a story line to a live audience, who provide useful feedback on what messages need clarification or streamlining, and what examples are most useful to them. The Bulletin may accept articles that have been previously published, if they are judged to be of particular value and provided the author indicates the earlier publication, volume, date, etc. Alternately, the Bulletin may produce adapted versions of the original article in order to tailor it to its audience. The Bulletin does occasionally publish suitable unsolicited articles, in accordance with editorial policy and plans, if they can be adapted to the thematic issue underway, space permitting. The Bulletin is prepared initially in English, then translated. Articles submitted in languages other than English are translated and edited for publication in English (then re-translated for publication in other languages). Articles may be submitted in English, French, Russian or Spanish. Time for translation needs to be taken into account when considering deadlines. The text should be submitted in MS Word by e-mail. All articles are edited to bring them into line with the overall style of the Bulletin. In editing articles, the Bulletin will attempt to maintain the style and point of view of the author(s). Wherever possible, the author(s) will be consulted with respect to major changes. The Bulletin, however,reserves the right to edit all copy as deemed appropriate, especially in terms of house style. All measurements should be given in the International System of Units. When monetary data are included in the article, a conversion to US dollars should be provided, using the current rate at the time the article is submitted. Scientific names and words in languages other than that of the text should be in italics. The Bulletin style is as follows: Authors should provide a selection of supporting illustrations (figures, graphs, photos). Illustrations should be submitted as high-resolution (at least 600 dpi) electronic files (jpg, tiff) for printing purposes. The Bulletin reserves the right not to publish illustrative material that is not of sufficiently high quality for printing. It is the author’s responsibility to clear copyright, and credits should be marked clearly. You can read more in the WMO Style Guide © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)