Darren Gleeson is appointed as the new Antrim senior hurling manager as former boss Neal Peden takes on a director of hurling role. Derry Football Championship holders Eoghan Rua exit after a one-point defeat by Magherafelt as Bellaghy also bow out. New Derry football boss Rory Gallagher aims to get the Oak Leafers "back to winning an Ulster title" during his three-year term. New Derry football manager Rory Gallagher denies that he is an arch-proponent of defensive football. Red Hands manager Mickey Harte believes a number of decisions from referee Maurice Deegan proved costly for his side in the 1-18 to 0-18 defeat by Kerry in the All-Ireland semi-final. BBC Sport NI columnist Martin Clarke believes Sunday's Super 8 draw between Donegal and Kerry was the best All-Ireland SFC game of recent seasons. Donegal raised the bar this year as they won a competitive Ulster Championship in style, says BBC Sport NI columnist Martin Clarke Ahead of the Ulster SF Championship opener between Tyrone and Derry on Sunday, why not have a go at our GAA quiz? Why does it mean so much when the parish camogie team becomes champions of Ireland? Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you St Michael's Enniskillen win their first MacRory Cup since 2012 as they beat Omagh CBS 0-16 to 2-6 at Armagh. Two goals from Tim Prenter help St Patrick's Downpatrick defeat Cathair Dhoire 2-13 to 1-11 in the MacLarnon Cup final at the Athletic Grounds. Schedule for the GAA (external site) How to get into Gaelic football - one of the most popular sports in Ireland. It's full-contact, fun, fast and will improve your fitness. How to get into hurling - a 15-a-side game which shares some elements with lacrosse, hockey, baseball or football 'England will plan racism response' F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France Bayliss reflects on time with England I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad