The policy effectively blocks most Central American migrants from seeking asylum in the US. The policy effectively blocks most Central American migrants from seeking asylum in the US. Thousands of Africans are crossing Panama's Darien Gap - one of the world's most dangerous jungles. Cuban President Miguel Díaz-Canel says there may be blackouts as soon as next week. The pilots' control panels started to melt and there was smoke during the accident in February. Emergency officials caution that the names have not yet been checked against those in shelters. Brazilian police accuse Najila Trindade and her former husband of perverting the course of justice. They were found in a property which once belonged to the family of Paraguay's former military ruler. The policy effectively blocks most Central American migrants from seeking asylum in the US. Thousands of Africans are crossing Panama's Darien Gap - one of the world's most dangerous jungles. Cuban President Miguel Díaz-Canel says there may be blackouts as soon as next week. The pilots' control panels started to melt and there was smoke during the accident in February. Emergency officials caution that the names have not yet been checked against those in shelters. Brazilian police accuse Najila Trindade and her former husband of perverting the course of justice. They were found in a property which once belonged to the family of Paraguay's former military ruler. Thousands of Africans are crossing Panama's Darien Gap - one of the world's most dangerous jungles. Cuban President Miguel Díaz-Canel says there may be blackouts as soon as next week. The pilots' control panels started to melt and there was smoke during the accident in February. The policy effectively blocks most Central American migrants from seeking asylum in the US. Cuban President Miguel Díaz-Canel says there may be blackouts as soon as next week. Marcos Martinez BBC Monitoring, Mexico City Creating a new police force was one of the president's top campaign pledges but will people join it? Emergency officials caution that the names have not yet been checked against those in shelters. Tom Edgington BBC Reality Check The UK says it want to replicate the EU's trade agreements "as far as possible". Peru end Brazil's 17-match unbeaten run with a 1-0 friendly win in Los Angeles. Brazilian police accuse Najila Trindade and her former husband of perverting the course of justice. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News