Through its Technical Commission, Programmes and Regional Offices as well as by synergistic partnerships, WMO facilitates the maintenance and expansion of its Members' atmospheric, oceanographic and land-based observational networks; the free unrestricted exchange of the resulting data and information; and related capacity developement and research in order to optimize the production of weather, climate and water-related services worldwide. WMO assists Members with technology transfer, training for capacity development, collaboration on research and the application of meteorology to public weather services, agriculture, the energy sector, the environment, health, transport (aviation and shipping), the management of water resources, disaster risk reduction and many more. The Organization also contributes to policy formulation in areas related to weather, climate and water at national and international levels. WMO, through its Programmes and activities, is dedicated to ensuring the highest possible quality of all meteorological, climatological, hydrological, marine and related environmental data, products and services, in particular, those supporting the protection of life and property, safety on land, at sea and in the air, sustainable economic development and protection of the environment.  WMO carries out its work through scientific and technical programmes designed to assist Members to provide, and benefit from, weather, climate and water services and to address present and emerging problems. Experience demonstrates that mutual benefits are gained from cooperative use of the pool of knowledge that has been, and is still being, created by worldwide sharing of meteorological, climatological hydrological and related information among Members. The programmes of WMO are based on this concept and make possible the provision of meteorological and related services in all countries at costs far below those that would be incurred if each Member acted alone. Read more...  WMO projects are global, regional and national interventions coordinated in partnership with other stakeholders – United Nation agencies, non-governmental agencies and Members. Creating synergies with projects and initiatives of other relevant stakeholders, WMO projects aim at enhancing capacities for improved impact-based forecasting. WMO projects can be either extra-budgetary or regular budget funded, and often involve several programmes. Read more... Within its mandate in the areas of weather, climate and water, WMO focuses on many different aspects and issues from observations, information exchange and research to weather forecasts and early warnings, from capacity development and monitoring of greenhouse gases to application services and much, much more. WMO works in partnership with international agencies, other organizations, academia, the media and the private sector to improve the range and quality of critical environmental information and services. © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)