Crazy for Chihuly? From Seattle's Chihuly Garden and Glass to an upcoming blockbuster at Cheekwood in Nashville, read on to find out where you can see work by the most celebrated glass artist in the world. Photo By: Terry Rishel Photo By: Carl Shortt Photography Photo By: Scott Mitchell Leen Photo By: Nathaniel Willson Photo By: Scott Mitchell Leen Photo By: Terry Rishel Photo By: Ben Hider Photo By: Photo by Laura James Dale Chihuly's avant-garde glass work first became popular in the Seventies and has stayed highly sought after ever since. A native of Tacoma, Washington, Chihuly has been credited with driving the resurgence of interest in glass art as well as innovating numerous techniques critical to the advancement of the form. His permanent works on view in locales around the world are often created to use light and space to interact with their environments. Chihuly's art has been included in more than 200 museum collections worldwide. If you want to catch a glimpse at these monumental, influential masterpieces, here's where to go. Located next to the Space Needle at the Seattle Center, the Chihuly Garden and Glass opened in 2012 has since become one of Seattle's most popular attractions. Featuring a comprehensive collection of his work, Chihuly's installations at Chihuly Garden and Glass engage with the architecture of the exhibition hall, garden and glasshouse. The Oklahoma City Museum of Art commissioned the 55-foot Eleanor Blake Kirkpatrick Memorial Tower for the atrium of the Donald W. Reynolds Visual Arts Center in 2004 which has since been supplemented by numerous gifts of his art made by Chihuly to the museum. The museum now boasts one of the largest Chihuly glass collections in the world. In 2004, Dale Chihuly opened a temporary exhibition at the Museum of Fine Arts in St. Petersburg, introducing his dramatic glass works to the city. After learning more about the Morean Arts Center and its focus on arts education for youth, Chihuly, a huge advocate for children’s art education, was happy to find a way to help support the organization’s mission of connecting people with art. The Chihuly Collection opened in 2010, becoming the first permanent museum collection of his installations with all proceeds helping support the education and exhibition programming at the Morean Arts Center, Morean Glass Studio and Morean Center for Clay. Inspired by nature, Chihuly's pieces often stand alongside or even engage with the environments where they are placed. At the Franklin Park Conservatory and Botanical Gardens, his artwork connects with the botanical garden and courtyard. Chihuly and his team visited Japan in 2015. During his stay, he worked with glassblowers at the Toyama City Institute of Glass Art to create Chihuly's Niijima Floats. The Floats, Chandeliers, a Mille Fiori platform and a Persian Ceiling, all of which are on view at the Toyama Glass Art Museum. If you love Chihuly and want more, check out the glass art festival Refract in Seattle October 17-20, 2019. The glass art celebration will take place at various locations in the region and will include exhibitions, art parties, talks, tours and more. In the spring of 2020, the Cheekwood Botanical Garden and Museum of Art will welcome Chihuly's iconic artwork, including two new installations, to mark the 10th anniversary of the artist’s last exhibition at the historic estate. The celebration will also commemorate Cheekwood's 60th anniversary as a public institution. Cheekwood will feature special Chihuly Nights admission on Thursdays through Sundays, along with regular daytime hours Tuesday through Sunday. Dale Chihuly was featured in enormously popular shows at the Atlanta Botanical Garden in 2004 and 2016. The garden has since added three Chihuly sculptures to its permanent collection including Chihuly's Paterre Fountain Installation, a sculpture of blue and white shapes that emulate water, ice and sky. First Look: HGTV Urban Oasis 2019