2018 FIFA World CupTM France win the World Cup for the second time by beating Croatia 4-2 in a tremendous final in Moscow. We've pulled together some of the photos that best captured the highs and lows of one of the most unpredictable World Cups. The years of hurt continue for England but at last there are real signs of progress, says chief football writer Phil McNulty. Relive all the best moments from the 2018 World Cup in Russia. Check out how the 2018 Fifa World Cup in Russia played out. Relive the most watched moments from the 2018 World Cup in Russia, including amazing celebrations, player theatrics and goalkeeping howlers. A biblical rainstorm, contrasting presidents and men in suits obscuring the crucial moment - the World Cup presentation ceremony was almost as entertaining as the final. Who played well and who disappointed as France beat Croatia in a thrilling final to win the World Cup. Which England players had a tournament to remember and who under-performed? Find out Phil McNulty's ratings - and yours. With reputations enhanced and optimism around the England side, Phil McNulty looks at where they need to improve in the future. Poet, author and journalist Musa Okwonga explores how Gareth Southgate's team represented "modern England" and captured the imagination of a nation. The remarkable story of Lev Yashin, the greatest goalkeeper of all time and a hero of the Soviet Union. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you News, debate, analysis and big-name guests - plus interviews from inside the England camp - from the Fifa 2018 World Cup. The history and culture of Russia explored in a podcast hosted by Adrian Chiles – with all 20 episodes available to download now. Evil Genius: Watch out, dead famous people 'England will plan racism response' F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France Bayliss reflects on time with England I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad