Excellent food. Friendly staff. Terrific view. Casual atmosphere. ?? Staff was very polite, friendly and helpful with all of our questions. Food was also fantastic! Great location just minutes from the market. My husband (still getting used to calling him that) and I visited Fleet Landing on October 3rd for dinner. We made reservations and were seated as soon as we walked in. It was our last night in Charleston for our honeymoon and we definitely saved the best for last. The view at sunset is very beautiful. Our server was Bentley, and he did an amazing job. He made sure all of our needs were taken care of, but still gave us the privacy we were hoping for. He even surprised us with champagne! The food was delicious, especially the shrimp and lobster hushpuppies. Highly recommend this restaurant and we can't wait to come back! Megan was our waitress. She was absolutely awesome! Friendly, smile, explained the specials of the day. Thank you Megan!? Great spot for a restaurant! Awesome view of the water with outside seating available! Started at the bar with a couple of drinks while we waited for table, my personal favorite was the “Charleston Sunset.” There were 5 of us with no reservation at 1pm, so our wait was a little over an hour which was fully expected during the busy Holiday weekend. We were in no hurry and didn’t plan a head, but you can make reservations. Great atmosphere inside and out, a modern twist whil...e maintaining the Historic Charleston charm. The food and drinks were great, the staff was extremely friendly and attentive, and the best part.... the cost was beyond reasonable. 5 people ordering alcohol, appetizers (stuffed hush puppies and fried green tomato’s with crab meat), full lunch meals (seared salmon), including 22% tip because our server was awesome... I still paid under $200. To the owner and managers, I truly hope you know what a great team you have working for you. I was bartender for many years, I’ve traveled a lot, I’ve been to more restaurants and bars than I can remember from “local dive bars” to 3 Star Michelin rated restaurants.... and this restaurant is definitely top notch, and I will come here every time I’m in Charleston from now on.