Early warning systems (EWSs) help society to prepare for, and respond to, all types of disasters, including those related to hydrometeorological hazards. They save lives and minimize potential economic and environmental damages. Several international initiatives at the regional and global levels address early warning systems. The Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015–2030 specifically highlights the need to “substantially increase the availability of and access to multi-hazard... We live in the age of the Service Economy. In the 20th century, scientific and technological breakthroughs, particularly in computing and information technology, combined with the globalization of trade to effect a shift in many countries from manufacturing to service economies. Providing advanced services is now a major driver for the economic development of many nations. WMO too aims to strengthen service delivery through the new Commission for Weather, Climate,... “What are you actually doing?” That is not a question that a management group likes to hear. But it is the question that the Danish Meteorological Institute (DMI) Director General Marianne Thyrring and Deputy Director General Anne Højer Simonsen have faced with from their stakeholders on several occasions. Besides the daily weather forecasts, most people simply do not know what DMI does. One of the things DMI does is store data that extends far beyond the five-day forecasts and gale warnings. “And these data are worth gold,” says Ms Thyrring. Past improvements Progress in environmental monitoring and numerical weather and climate prediction has been intimately connected with the progress in supercomputing. Over the last few decades, advances in computing power have enabled us to increase the skill and detail of our forecasts through increasing spatial resolution, enhancing realism by adding more detailed representations of physical processes, joined with more Earth-system components and investment in ensemble techniques to characterize the uncertainty... Will the “cloud” and machine learning yield the next breakthrough in the weather, climate and water area? Exceptional advances in technology and its use over the last few decades have irrevocably changed how we work and live. Computers are more powerful than ever before; the smartphones in our pockets are faster than the mid-1980s Cray-2 supercomputer. Ninety percent of all data in existence has been created in the last two... Data, together with the systems and regulated processes by which they are measured, collected, compared, shared, processed and applied, are fundamental to WMO. In that sense, data has shaped the evolution of the Organization and the operations of its Member States and Territories since its origin. The World Weather Watch (WWW), for example, acknowledged as one of the crowning achievements of WMO, was triggered by the emerging global data-gathering potential... A smart, agile and responsive WMO – fit for the 21st Century – coordinates across all areas and takes a holistic and inclusive weather, water and climate approach. The WMO Constituent Body Reform aim is to deliver a smart WMO. Its main goal is to align governance and working structures with the WMO Strategic Plan 2020-2030. This is key to improving preparedness for hydrometeorological extremes and mitigating disaster risks. Phenomena like... WMO for the 21st Century In both 2018 and 2019, the World Economic Forum identified weather extremes, natural disasters, the failure of climate change adaptation and mitigation, and water crises as the highest and most probable four global risks for humanity. The socioeconomic consequences and costs related to the impacts of these extreme events continue to rise. Global mobilization – realized through a number of frameworks such as Sustainable Development... By S Castonguay WMO Secretariat Vladimir Ryabinin of the Russian Federation was appointed as the new Executive Secretary of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) of UNESCO at the level of Assistant Director-General (ADG) of UNESCO on 1 March 2015. Mr Ryabinin went to IOC from WMO, where he was a Senior Scientific Officer in the World Climate Research Programme (WCRP) from 2001 to 2015. His... © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)