Jump to navigation What do senior executives at EMC, Deutsche Bank, GE, State Street, Bain & Company, Morgan Stanley, Dunkin Brands, IBM, BNY Mellon, and McKinsey & Co. have in common? They and scores of other industry leaders (including 42,000 business professionals in 72 countries) are graduates of the Isenberg School of Management, recently ranked 6th among the nation's universities (tied with Cornell and just behind Harvard, MIT, Boston College, Northeastern, and Tufts) in providing CEOs for the Greater Boston area's business community. Our international reputation in business leadership, alternative investments, quality management, large-scale networks, organizational change and culture, behavioral accounting, and many other business activities underscores our pursuit of new knowledge that transforms markets and business practice. Just ask the students in our acclaimed academic programs-programs that have risen impressively in the national rankings. The Isenberg School's undergraduate and MBA programs are ranked in the top 40 and top 20, respectively. Our undergraduate business program is ranked by BusinessWeek in 2014 as the 36th best program in the country, and the 14th best among public universities. Notably, we are rated 11th in the nation in BusinessWeek's Employer Survey (an independent survey measuring recruiter perceptions of which programs turned out the best graduates). In U.S. News & World Reports' 2014 forecast, our Full-time MBA now ranks 26th best in public universities (51st overall), and our Online MBA ranks 23rd best in public universities (27th overall). Our national competitiveness has helped us to attract 1,300 students to our Full-time, Blended, and Online MBA programs. These accomplishments reflect not only our strategic investment in a curriculum that immerses students in the theoretical and the applied, but also our close ties with a network of business practitioners that foster the career and professional development of our students. We stress not only the development of the intellect, but also the resilience of our students themselves, who are valued in the marketplace as resourceful, persistent problem solvers. In addition to our solid repertoire of core business disciplines such as Accounting, Finance, Management, Marketing, and Operations & Information Management, we offer industry specializations through our Department of Hospitality & Tourism Management and our Mark H. McCormack Department of Sport Management, ranked among the top 5 and top 2 programs in the nation, respectively. Whatever their business major, Isenberg students can count on a wealth of hands-on opportunities that call for innovative business practices. Last year, Isenberg students were winners and earned seed money in the campus-wide Innovation Challenge business plan competition. They helped host a daylong TEDx Conference at Isenberg. And they honed their investment management skills on our twelve new Bloomberg Terminals. Isenberg, moreover, is in Amherst, Massachusetts, just a few hours from Boston and New York. When you consider our academic advantages alongside our unique location, we hope that you'll see recruiters from hundreds of companies come to our campus each year to meet with our students. On this web site, you will find example after example of our energetic, innovative programs and culture. I invite you to explore them and I welcome your interest in Isenberg--where world-class educators prepare passionate students for global business leadership. Name: Erin Cromack '15 Program: Undergraduate Online Major: Hospitality & Tourism Management Read more  You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.