Jump to navigation This major provides you with the technical training necessary to meet the challenges of employment in the golf course, sports turf, lawn care, and park maintenance industries. A career in the turfgrass industry is very rewarding, and the demand is growing. Professional turfgrass managers blend the technical expertise of turfgrass culture and physiology with the challenges of managing insects, diseases, and weed populations to keep turf areas green and healthy. The turf industry is relatively young, but it is clearly a major industry that continues to expand and provide many levels of excellent career opportunities. For instance, there are more than 800 golf courses in New England and the sod industry in southern New England is comprised of thousands of acres, with a farm value in the tens of millions of dollars. The field is very broad and includes seed and sod production, turfgrass establishment and maintenance in lawns, sports turf, parks, schools, and cemeteries, as well as golf course. There are opportunities in municipal and state positions, private and public golf courses, lawn and landscape companies, as well as opportunities to establish your own business. Some turf management graduates work for suppliers of turf products in sales or as technical representatives, or work as private consultants. Additional career opportunities include golf course design, urban planning, marketing, and environmental land planning. Scholarships are offered by many national & regional turfgrass organizations such as: Golf Course Superintendents Association of America, Professional Grounds Management Society, Scotts Company Scholars Program, Sports Turf Managers Association, Charles & Frances Osterman Scholarship, New England Sports Managers Association, and the Troll-Dickinson Scholarship. The UMass/Stockbridge Turf Club is open to all Stockbridge School and UMass Amherst students majoring in Turfgrass Management or Turfgrass Science and Management. Club activities include interacting with invited speakers and field trips to local golf courses, professional sports facilities, and regional turf conferences. Turf Club meets weekly during the academic year. Membership provides the opportunity to network with potential employers. Contact Dr. Michelle DaCosta to get involved. Fill out our contact form or call one of our advisors at 413-545-2222 to ask your questions, schedule a tour, or get more information! ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact 