Boris Johnson denies lying over his reasons for the shutdown, after Scottish judges rule it unlawful. Boris Johnson denies lying over his reasons for the shutdown, after Scottish judges rule it unlawful. Troubles victims' campaigner Raymond McCord was one of three people to bring legal action. Labour wants MPs to return to Parliament to scrutinise the government's plans for no deal. The UK has not yet put forward any workable alternatives to the Brexit border backstop, says the EU. Previous legislation was dropped when the prime minister suspended Parliament for five weeks. Several bills will fall because of prorogation, including a bill tackling domestic violence and Brexit legislation. Boris Johnson denies lying over his reasons for the shutdown, after Scottish judges rule it unlawful. Troubles victims' campaigner Raymond McCord was one of three people to bring legal action. Labour wants MPs to return to Parliament to scrutinise the government's plans for no deal. The UK has not yet put forward any workable alternatives to the Brexit border backstop, says the EU. Previous legislation was dropped when the prime minister suspended Parliament for five weeks. Several bills will fall because of prorogation, including a bill tackling domestic violence and Brexit legislation. Troubles victims' campaigner Raymond McCord was one of three people to bring legal action. Labour wants MPs to return to Parliament to scrutinise the government's plans for no deal. The UK has not yet put forward any workable alternatives to the Brexit border backstop, says the EU. Those behind the petition say the prime minister "does not represent our views". Felicity Evans Political editor, Wales The Liberal Democrats are in genuine discussions on a deal, Lib Dem leader Jo Swinson reveals. Brian Taylor Political editor, Scotland In court judgements, no-deal planning documents and indeed parliamentary debate - words matter. Stephen Walker BBC News NI Political Correspondent John O'Dowd is challenging Michelle O'Neill for vice president at the Sinn Féin Ard Fheis. It comes after the government's Brexit assessments warn supplies could be disrupted. Housing officers believe new properties could "remove the stigma" and tempt people to live there. Labour wants MPs to return to Parliament to scrutinise the government's plans for no deal. A Welsh minister says no amount of preparation can cope with the disruption the paper outlines. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News