A loan is a form of financial aid that you must repay with interest, usually after you graduate or leave school. To be considered for federal student loans, you need to file a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and you must meet all eligibility criteria required for receipt of federal assistance. William D. Ford Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan is available to eligible students, regardless of family income or financial need. However, to receive this loan, you must: The annual limit for graduate students is $20,500 - When awarding the Direct Unsubsidized Loan it is assumed you may receive a Graduate Appointment. If you do not receive an Appointment, please let the Financial Aid Office know, as this may increase your loan eligibility. The interest rate is fixed at 6.60%. Interest payments for Federal Unsubsidized Direct Loans begin the day the loan is disbursed and can be paid monthly, quarterly, or capitalized (adding the interest to the loan principal). The Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan program enables credit worthy graduate students to borrow directly from the federal government to help pay for their educational expenses. You may borrow up to the cost of attendance minus financial aid. The interest rate is fixed and is set each year on July 1, but will never exceed 10.50%. PLUS Loans are disbursed directly to the student's UMass Amherst account, generally in two installments. The program charges interest on the loan from the date the first disbursement is made until the loan is paid in full. To apply for a Graduate PLUS Loan you must file a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and submit a complete Graduate PLUS Loan Pre-Application and Entrance Counseling Form available on the Forms website to Financial Aid Services. Borrowers of Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loans begin repayment 60 days after the second disbursement. However, your loan will be placed into deferment while enrolled at least half-time and for an additional six months after ceasing half-time enrollment. If the loan is deferred, interest will accrue on the loan during deferment. You may choose to pay the accrued interest or allow the interest to capitalized when the deferment period ends. A choice of repayment options allows you to repay the loan in a way that best suits your financial circumstances. Applications and detailed information on repayment options are available at Financial Aid Services. Before considering private loan options, you should apply for federal, state and institutional financial aid, including federal student loans. If you are considering educational private loans, you should apply only after you have applied for financial aid and received notification from the Financial Aid Office. Go to FAFSA on the Web for more information. Financial Aid Services at the University of Massachusetts Amherst strongly recommends that you fully research the alternative loan program and lender that best suits your financing needs. Please compare the benefits and costs of several alternative loan programs before you apply. To get the best interest rate and terms apply with a credit-worthy cosigner. To find out how to apply for an alternative loan visit the lender's website. Below are links to alternative educational loans for 2019-2020. The lenders included on each list responded to a public request for information (RFI) distributed by UMass Amherst Financial Aid Services. The proposals were evaluated and lenders selected based on the benefits the loan products offer to borrowers, including interest rates and fees, repayment benefits and terms, ability to apply, sign, certify and disburse electronically, quality of customer service to borrowers, problem resolution, loan management tools and availability of consumer information and web based service features. This is not a comprehensive list of all the educational loans available. Inclusion on this list is not an endorsement or recommendation by the University of Massachusetts Amherst. If you have worked with a lender not listed below, and has received excellent benefits and quality service from this lender, you may continue to do business with that lender. Financial Aid Services will process alternative loans for any lender selected by the student. For your convenience, we have provided telephone numbers and links to websites maintained by these lenders. UMass Amherst is not responsible for the availability, content, or accuracy of materials on third party websites. Please carefully read final loan agreements or promissory notes and understand their payment terms and other obligations. Alternative Loan Options for Graduate Students The lenders were selected from responses to a public Request for Proposals (RFP) for private/alternative loans published by the University of Massachusetts Amherst Financial Aid Services. View the RFI and evaluation criteria.  A Graduate Assistantship is your best option for finding a teaching or research assistantship is to contact your academic department. The Graduate Assistantship Office processes graduate appointments and associated waiver benefits. This office also posts assistantship opportunities when they become available (these assistantships are mostly through non-academic departments and are generally for administrative support). The Graduate Assistantship Office does not assign or determine who receives appointments. Graduate Assistantship Office 517 Goodell Building 413-545-5287 gradappt@grad.umass.edu Graduate School Fellowship funds are allocated to the schools and colleges under a matching agreement between the Dean of the Graduate School and the academic dean. The departments select their fellowship recipients. The Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education (TEACH) Grant Program is federally funded and provides up to $4,000 annual grants to full-time students who plan to become teachers. A graduate student may receive a total of two scheduled awards, or a total of up to $8,000, for a Master’s degree program. TEACH Grant recipients at the University of Massachusetts Amherst must meet the following eligibility criteria: You must also fulfill the following conditions: NOTE: If you fail to complete this service obligation, all amounts of the TEACH Grant that you received will be converted to a Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan, and the interest on the loan will be charged from the date the original TEACH Grant was disbursed. You must repay this loan to the U. S. Department of Education. Schools Serving Low-Income Students are listed in the U. S. Department of Education’s Annual Directory of Designated Low-Income Schools for Teacher Cancelation Benefits. High-Need Fields in Massachusetts for 2014-2015 (subject to change): Please see the program description on Student Aid on the Web for general information. Most graduate students at UMass Amherst are hired through the appointment process as teaching assistants, research assistants, or interns. Your best option for finding a teaching or research assistantship is to contact your academic department. In certain cases, departments hire graduate students on an hourly basis. Graduate students with high financial need as determined by the FAFSA may be eligible to use Federal Work-Study for hourly employment. Assistantship positions cannot be funded with Federal Work-Study. Hourly graduate work-study positions and the associated pay rate must be pre-approved by the Graduate Assistantship Office before you may begin your employment. To request work study funds for the summer session, please complete a Summer Aid Application. To be considered for work-study funds during the fall/spring, contact Financial Aid Services. A loan is a form of financial aid that you must repay with interest, usually after you graduate or leave school. To be considered for federal student loans, you need to file a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and you must meet all eligibility criteria required for receipt of federal assistance. Federal student loans come in different categories. UMass Amherst offers the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan (Direct Loan) Program from the federal government. Federal student loans may be subsidized or unsubsidized. With subsidized loans, the U. S. Department of Education pays the interest while you are enrolled in college and you must demonstrate financial need to receive these. With unsubsidized loans, you pay all of the interest, but payments may be deferred until you finish your degree. Unsubsidized loans are awarded regardless of family income or financial need. To receive a federal loan, you need to sign a Promissory Note and complete an entrance interview form. For loans administered by UMass Amherst, the financial aid office will contact you with procedures for completing both documents. For private/alternative loans, your lender will provide the promissory notes. There are limits on the amount that a student may borrow under the Direct Loan Program for one academic year. There are also cumulative limits on the total amount a student may borrow to pursue their education. Financial Aid Services uses the National Student Loan Database Service (NSLDS) to determine your total loan aggregates. Refer to your Student Aid Report (SAR) for your loan aggregates, it is important for you to monitor your loan aggregates to ensure you do not borrow beyond your eligibility. Please note that meeting eligibility requirements does not guarantee loan availability. The interest rate for Federal Direct Loans varies depending on the loan type and first disbursement date. Visit Federal Student Aid for more information on the Direct Loan program. If you have begun repaying loans, you may be eligible for a loan deferment when you return to school. Contact your loan servicing center to find out more. Several flexible repayment options are available. Visit Federal Student Aid for more information on the Direct Loan program. Direct Loan Information: Find out about applying for Direct Loans, learn about the options you have for repayment, use the interactive calculators, download Direct Loan deferment and forbearance forms, and get information about Direct Loan Consolidation. Direct Loan Master Promissory Note: Complete your William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan promissory note online. The National Student Loan Data Systems: An online tool to obtain information regarding your student loan history, overpayments, Pell Grant history, and enrollment history. Before considering private loan options, you should apply for federal, state and institutional financial aid, including federal student loans. Students considering educational private loans should apply only after they have applied for financial aid and received notification from Financial Aid Services. Go to FAFSA on the Web for more information. Financial Aid Services strongly recommends that you fully research the alternative loan program and lender that best suits your financing needs. Please compare the benefits and costs of several alternative loan programs before you apply. To get the best interest rate and terms apply with a credit-worthy cosigner. To find out how to apply for an alternative loan visit the lender's website. Below are links to alternative educational loans list. The lenders included on each list responded to a public request for information (RFI) distributed by UMass Amherst Financial Aid Services. The proposals were evaluated and lenders selected based on the benefits the loan products offer to borrowers, including interest rates and fees, repayment benefits and terms, ability to apply, sign, certify and disburse electronically, quality of customer service to borrowers, problem resolution, loan management tools and availability of consumer information and web based service features. This is not a comprehensive list of all the educational loans available. Inclusion on this list is not an endorsement or recommendation by the University of Massachusetts Amherst. If a parent or student has worked with a lender not listed below, and has received excellent benefits and quality service from this lender, you may continue to do business with that lender. Financial Aid Services will process alternative loans for any lender selected by the student. For your convenience, we have provided telephone numbers and links to websites maintained by these lenders. UMass Amherst is not responsible for the availability, content, or accuracy of materials on third party websites. Please carefully read final loan agreements or promissory notes and understand their payment terms and other obligations. Interest Rate Definitions Learn about Private Loan Programs Application and Solicitation Disclosures here. Lender Selection Criteria The lenders were selected from responses to a public Request for Information (RFI) for private/alternative loans published by the University of Massachusetts Amherst Financial Aid Services. View the RFP and evaluation criteria. Private Loan Options Available Select the appropriate link below to see a list of lenders.   Financial Aid Services 243 Whitmore Admin. Building 181 Presidents Dr. Amherst, MA 01003 Phone: 413-545-0801 Fax: 413-545-1700 finaid@finaid.umass.edu Staff Listing Monday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Tuesday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Wednesday: 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. Thursday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Saturday: Closed Sunday: Closed CMASS, Wilder Hall Thursdays 2:30-4:30 p.m. International Programs Office, 70 Butterfield Terrace Tuesdays 12:30-4:30 p.m. Library Learning Commons Tuesdays & Wednesdays 5:00-8:00 p.m.   ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact