If you have already submitted your completed application, then congratulations! Here is some more information you may find helpful as we review your materials. Graduate Applicant Access in SPIRE: Within seven (7) days after the Graduate School processes your application fee, you will receive an email with your UMass Amherst NetID and password. Use your new credentials to log into SPIRE to see your Graduate Applicant Center. Note that applicants who already have NetIDs as current students, faculty, or staff will not receive this email. If you already have a NetID, you will find your Graduate Applicant Center in SPIRE by going to Main Menu > Admissions > Graduate Applicant Center. Graduate Applicant Center in SPIRE: On this page, you can see which of your references have submitted recommendations and send reminders to those who have yet to submit. You can upload additional documents, such as transcripts, to supplement your application materials. You can also see a summary of everything the Graduate School has received as part of your application by clicking Check Status of Application. As soon as we receive your application materials and application fee, your application is available to the graduate faculty in your desired program of study for their consideration. Each program's Admissions Committee has its own timeline for reviewing applications. Contact the academic department directly if you have questions or concerns about the review timeline. The graduate program will make a decision on your application and notify the Graduate School. When the Graduate School receives the committee’s evaluation of your application we notify you of a status change via email and your decision letter is made available in SPIRE. If you are recommended for admission, the Graduate School will confirm that you meet the minimum admission requirements and finalize the offer. Applicants are not admitted until they receive an offer of admission from the Graduate School. If the graduate program recommends you for admission, the Graduate School will review your application to ensure the Graduate School's minimum requirements are met. You will be notified by the Graduate School after admission has been finalized. It is important that you tell us your plans as soon as possible. Your quick response will allow us to secure your place in the incoming class, or release your spot to other applicants who may be waiting for acceptance. Once you have decided whether to accept or decline the offer of admission, login to SPIRE > Main Menu > Admissions > Student Center for New Graduate Students to share your plans. The Graduate School abides by the Council of Graduate Schools Resolution Regarding Graduate Scholars, Fellows, Trainees, and Assistants. When a prospective or current student accepts an offer of financial support (such as a graduate scholarship, fellowship, traineeship, or assistantship) for the next academic year, the student enters an agreement that both the student and graduate program are expected to honor. Students are under no obligation to respond to offers of financial support prior to April 15. Withdrawing an acceptance of financial support after April 15 commits the student to obtain a written release from the program before accepting an offer from another program or institution. See the Resolution for additional conditions affecting the offer. Upon admittance, official transcripts must be submitted from all colleges/universities attended, undergraduate and graduate, where nine (9) or more credits were taken. In order to be considered official, transcripts must be submitted, either electronically or in paper format, directly by each institution's Registrar to the Graduate Student Service Center. Certified Electronic Transcripts: Colleges and universities in the United States may submit secure electronically delivered transcripts that are digitally signed, passcode protected, and properly certified by the issuing institution. ?Send to:?gradadm@grad.umass.edu.? Transcripts sent as email attachments are not considered official. Paper Transcripts: It is preferred that the official documents be delivered directly from the issuing institution.? However, if the document is given to you to forward to UMass, it must be received in the official sealed envelope that is signed and stamped across the envelope flap by the appropriate academic officer at the institution issuing the document.? If the envelope has been opened or there is no stamp or signature across the envelope flap, it will not be accepted. English Translation:?Transcripts and degree documents that are in a language other than English must be accompanied with an official English translation?or an official credential evaluation from a?NACES?member. The Graduate School will defer your admission only with a recommendation from the graduate program. Graduate programs may grant deferred admission for up to one year following the original term of application. Send your deferral request to the graduate program. Consideration beyond one year requires submission of a new application, application fee, and required application materials. Application materials not submitted electronically with your application can be uploaded in SPIRE on your Graduate Applicant Center. Find your Graduate Applicant Center in SPIRE by going to Main Menu > Admissions > Graduate Applicant Center. Graduate Student Service Center 534 Goodell Building University of Massachusetts 140 Hicks Way Amherst, MA 01003-9333