We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes "Here's our fourth place 'winners.... the 7th player (not in pic) missed this game for a dance recital so that should tell you where her focus was at this time." Kobe is getting roasted for his brutally honest IG caption. More: http://cmplx.co/29pT3NJ pic.twitter.com/LVYefy1R9S yeah kobe a maniac lmfaopic.twitter.com/wzR9v1T3Ck Megan Schuster Retweeted the boy who lived. did he really just.....criticize a seventh grader......for wanting.......to perform.................in a dance recital?https://twitter.com/kharigold/status/1171863882605965312 … Megan Schuster added, mike freeman Retweeted the boy who lived. Kobe is dragging a SEVENTH GRADER.https://twitter.com/kharigold/status/1171863882605965312 … mike freeman added, Nah fam I was just explaining why she wasn’t in the pic. Most of my kids on the team played and still play other sports including my daughter so it’s all love. Don’t misunderstand the message. But Why all of em look so defeated They Kids fam I understand winning mentality but this not game 7 of the finals.. some kids hate loosing bro and that’s ok. They have worked hard to improve because of it. sorry if it came across as a slight, trust me it wasn’t. I was just giving the reason for her not being in the pic. They chose not to smile for the pic I actually followed their lead. Our team has become family and this includes the 7th player ohhhhh shit i get it now. that picture is of the old team back when they were ass, and now they whooping teams ass cause they stuck with it.. damn my bad kobe i’ll never throw you to the wolves again he changed the caption for clarity. i influenced the wow what a day.pic.twitter.com/8SkP1mrPdo Those Kids: “WE CAME IN FOURTH PLACE!” The Parents: “We’re so proud of you!” The Principal: “Good sportsmanship is all that matters.” Kobe:pic.twitter.com/7hJBzIYsE9 5th grader's Dad: Hey Kobe, my daughter probably won't come in for practice today cuz she got dance recitals. Kobe:pic.twitter.com/lP3XFNXADN Kobe in the locker room after they finished 4th:pic.twitter.com/jhYU0RPVDD 12 year old: Mr. Kobe? I can't make the game tomorrow I have a dance reci- Kobe:pic.twitter.com/g8ZHZLARUH at your child dance recital knowing Coach Kobe Bryant roasted you on Instagrampic.twitter.com/bCcfvQ0Av7 Kobe did not need to clap at Steph and the Warriors like thatpic.twitter.com/ZhOQwGa7gQ You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.