The objective of the WMO reform is to increase the Organization’s effectiveness and efficiency, and to better engage Members and experts. Divino Moura of Brazil received the WMO top prize for his outstanding work in meteorology and climatology and his leadership in science. Mr Moura was recognized for his “scientific contribution towards a better understanding of the role of the Atlantic and El Niño in the regional and global climate and establishing a framework for climate–society linkages and climate services, for dedicated research work and forming a cadre of scientists aiming Congress also endorsed a package of measures to strengthen early warnings against hazards like floods and tropical cyclones, and to ensure that these become part and parcel of humanitarian operations. It decided to spur work on a Global Multi-hazard Alert System that would pool information from national and regional systems that already exist, or are being planned. Water stress, water-related hazards and water quality pose increasing challenges to modern society. And yet, the capacity to monitor and manage this vital resource is fragmented and inadequate. Congress also approved a new collaborative framework on the ocean to streamline and enhance WMO ocean activities, boost inter-agency coordination and cooperation, and contribute to the UN Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development, which runs from 2021 to 2030. Paving the way for a radical overhaul of the international exchange of observational data which underpin all weather, climate and water services and products, Congress approved the establishment of a Global Basic Observing Network (GBON). The need to tackle climate change and predict and pre-empt its future impacts has added new imperatives to bringing down the barriers between scientific fields, policymakers, business and wider society. Petteri Taalas of Finland, first appointed in 2015, was re-appointed WMO Secretary-General for a further four year-term. Congress elected Gerhard Adrian of Germany as the new WMO President for a four-year term in office with effect from the end of Congress on 14 June. The World Meteorological Congress, held on 3–14 June, approved a package of sweeping reforms to deliver a smart, agile and responsive WMO, fit for the 21st Century. The reform overhauls WMO's governance structure and ensures that the Organization is better equipped to tackle mounting challenges such as climate change, extreme weather, environmental degradation and urbanization, while harnessing technological advances from satellites, supercomputing and big data. “The World Meteorological Joint session of Mediterranean, South East European, Northern Africa and Arab Climate Outlook Forums was held in Cairo, Egypt, from 26 to 29 November 2018. The Forum produced a seasonal climate outlook for the 2018-2019 boreal winter season over the entire Mediterranean region, as well as sub-regional outlooks for South East Europe, North Africa and the Middle East, and agreed on a common approach to ensure harmonized information across overlapping areas. © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)