Jump to navigation The Isenberg MS in Sport Management—ranked by SportBusiness as the #1 graduate program in the world—gives students the skills, credibility and well-connected network they need to rise to the top. Get a competitive edge with a graduate degree from the "Business School for Sport Business". For over 40 years, the Mark H. McCormack Department of Sport Management graduate program, situated in the top ranked Isenberg School of Management, has offered a cutting-edge mix of theory and practice while educating and training some of the most dynamic leaders in the field Our rigorous curriculum - taught by one of the largest full-time faculties in the country, with over 100 years industry and consulting experience - is specifically designed to blend theory with practice. We offer the broadest selection of experiential learning classes in the country. You will acquire real-world experience from our classes, including sport marketing, market research, sport communications, event management, sales promotion, and sport analytics. Isenberg also offers a dual MBA/MS degree with our MBA program. Are you ready to apply to our MS in Sport Management program? Admission to the MS program is highly competitive. Applicants' academic history, GMAT or GRE performance, motivation, aptitude for graduate-level work, and managerial experience are all taken into consideration. Candidates with at least two years of full-time work experience are preferred. View a full list of general admissions requirements from the UMass Graduate Admissions Office.  Our experiential-based curriculum, frequent industry guest speakers, expansive alumni network, and engaging, invested faculty best prepare our graduate students to become leaders in a broad range of sport industry segments and create a student experience that is second-to-none in sport business education. In most of our classes, the theory that applies to each discipline is supplemented by projects providing students the ability to work in teams to solve "real world" challenges. Students will gain expertise in sport-related disciplines ranging from marketing, law and finance … to applied sport market research and analytics. Learn more Each year, over 30 alums – spanning the country as well as industry segments -- volunteer their time, expertise and insights to help prepare the next class of alums for their careers in the sport industry. From monthly Skypes and shadowing days, to resume advice and job recommendations, each year the program results in the creation of lasting relationships that have become the hallmark of our alumni network. View all Mentors Our commitment to diversity is also found in the array of career interests we help foster. The field of sport management is thriving and there is a driving demand for sport business-related professionals. Having students pursuing careers in a wide range of industry segments not only adds to the class dynamic but also begins to build each students' long-term network. Learn more "I chose Isenberg's sport management department to assist with my professional pivot because of the exceptionality of the faculty, the strength of the alumni network, and the high esteem that the program holds in the sport management sector. The cherry on top is the engaging community that fosters growth through collaboration in a non-competitive space."  Manager, Fan Journey Marketing, Major League Soccer While there are many factors the make the McCormack Sport Management at Isenberg program unique, but for me, coming from India, one of the most important was the opportunity to network with alumni using the Alumni Database and the Graduate Mentorship Program. My mentor was tremendously helpful in guiding me along the path I was pursuing, as well as helping me to best prepare for interviews. In addition, I was able to create great bonds with numerous other alumni.   Scouting Assistant, New England Patriots One of the primary reasons I chose to attend the McCormack Sport Management at Isenberg is because the professors are leaders in their respective areas of Sport Management and the Alumni are heavily involved. There is genuine and mutual appreciation from everyone who is a part of the program. This is why so many Alums are successful -- you get out of the program what you put into it.   Marketing Associate, Positive Coaching Alliance In addition to a superb classroom experience, the Mark H. McCormack Department of Sport Management at Isenberg provided students with a plethora of opportunities outside of the classroom to prepare us for the industry. In my two years I was able to attend networking events, conferences, earn an internship, meet industry leaders, and work on a team of advisors for three major sports businesses.   Director of Sales, Seattle Reign FC I chose the McCormack Sport Management at Isenberg program because, based on my research, I felt it was the best sport management program in the country, and my time spent there certainly reinforced that. The program provides ready access to a vast and established alumni network that provided invaluable guidance to me and my classmates. Based on my experience, there is no better way to prepare yourself for a lifelong career in the sports industry.  The WISE/McCormack Graduate Scholars Award Program will provide two members of Women in Sports and Events, Inc. (WISE) the opportunity to receive... Nefertiti Walker, Isenberg’s associate dean for an inclusive organization and a professor of Sport Management, received a Research Fellow Award... The McCormack Department of Sport Management's graduate program ranks first in the world in its discipline, according to a survey by the British-... You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.