Providing reliable, high quality, timely and cost-effective meteorological services to aviation users worldwide. Assisting National Meteorological and Hydrological Services in providing weather and climate services to farmers, herders and fishermen in order to promote sustainable agricultural development, increase productivity and contribute to food security Floods are the most common natural hazards with the largest impacts on society. Although exceptionally devastating floods distort the trend, flood impact records show that the number of related fatalities is gradually decreasing thanks to, among others, better early warning systems; however, damages to land and property appear to be increasing due to insufficient prevention, economic growth and a lack of flood-sensitive land use planning. The Associated Programme on Flood Management (APFM) promotes an Integrated Flood Management approach... Assisting in the capacity development of National Meteorological and Hydrological Services (NMHSs) by improving human, technical and institutional capacities and infrastructure, particularly in developing, least developed and small island developing states and territories in order to enable them to deliver weather, climate and water-related services. Enhancing the contributions of National Meteorological and Hydrological Services (NMHSs) to disaster risk reduction (DRR) at all levels in a more cooperative, cost-effective, systematic and sustainable manner. Connecting people and institutions to the learning opportunities necessary for well-functioning meteorological, hydrological and climate services. Enabling worldwide use of specialized and tailored products in support of environmental emergency response involving large-scale dispersion of air-borne hazardous substances. Addressing atmospheric composition on all scales: from global, regional, to local and urban. The Global Climate Observing System (GCOS) is a co-sponsored programme which regularly assesses the status of global climate observations and produces guidance for its improvement. It is co-sponsored by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of UNESCO (IOC-UNESCO), United Nations Environment Programme (UN Environment), and International Science Council (ISC). GCOS expert panels maintain definitions of Essential Climate Variables (ECVs).... Enabling worldwide use of timely, reliable and accurate Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) products and services in all time-scales for applications related to weather, climate, water and environment. © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)