Jump to navigation Students choose Isenberg’s online option to complete an undergraduate degree because they want to advance in their professions or make a career change. Isenberg offers freedom without compromise—a flexible learning environment that delivers a superior AACSB-accredited education. Need assistance with this form? Need assistance with this form? Someone will be in touch with you within 48 hours.  The Isenberg undergraduate online program at UMass Amherst is adaptable to your schedule and needs. It gives you the opportunity to complete your degree without having to put your life on hold. Through it, you’ll gain the skills, knowledge, confidence, and competitive edge employers are seeking.  In this fast-paced, competitive environment, organizations are seeking employees who can recognize, analyze, communicate and affect positive changes to the challenges and opportunities they face. Our program offers comprehensive exposure to all important aspects of business including marketing, finance, accounting, operations and information management.  We keep an open mind when reviewing applications because we know life isn’t formula-driven. A successful student is motivated, has good time management skills and works well independently, as well as in groups. A strong applicant will have at least a 3.0 GPA and a minimum of 27 transferable credits. Learn more about the application requirements and apply here We offer a superior educational experience - expert faculty and an innovative learning platform that can be accessed anytime and anywhere. The Isenberg undergraduate online program offers students the option to take up to five courses (15 credits) before applying to, or while you complete your application for the program. Learn more about registering for a class The Isenberg undergraduate online curriculum provides students with the skills and knowledge essential for success. The program is a blend of quality instructors, innovative technology, and valuable coursework that simulates real-world business experiences. We offer Bachelors in Business Administration (BBA) and Bachelors of Science (BS) in Hospitality & Tourism Management. Click here for more information on our degrees and majors Our dedicated, and supportive advising team, with over ten years experience, is ready to assist you with any questions or concern you may have. They can assist you with any questions you may have about your studies, from finishing your degree to taking stand-alone classes that complement your career. Meet and contact our online undergraduate program advising team Isenberg's Partnership Program benefits employers and employees. Learn more about becoming a partner.  We have partnered with Big Y Foods, Inc. to offer you an exclusive educational opportunity. Big Y employees are eligible for special financial benefits.   Caesers Entertainment employees are prepared to thrive in the global business industry.   Ecolabs employees now have the opportunity to complete their undergraduate degree and strive toward the possibilities of advancement within the Ecolabs enterprise.   Through a partnership with the Office of Head Start, Isenberg is offering an undergraduate-level general business studies certificate that incorporates Head Start case management examples   Isenberg welcomes students from Coastline Community College.   Isenberg Online undergraduate degree completion program is part of the Mass Transfer Block (MTB).   We have partnered with TD Bank to offer you an exclusive educational opportunity.   The TAA Trade Program is now partnered with the Isenberg online degree completion program to offer the opportunity to complete your Bachelor of Business Administration or Bachelor of Science in Hospitality & Tourism Management degree.   United Technologies Corporation employees are prepared to thrive in the global business industry.   Isenberg Online offers you the flexibility to pursue your studies completely online without sacrificing academic challenge and rigor.   We have partnered with the Massachusetts YMCAs to offer you an exclusive educational opportunity.  “Online learning works very well for me given the time demands of my work and family,” observes Isenberg Undergraduate Online student Paul Francisco.  Owner and president of an electrical construction company in northeast Ohio, Paul is married and the father of three children—two of them college age. He plans to complete his course work this fall and earn his BBA in February. “The curriculum has all been very useful to me as a businessperson,” Paul continues. That includes, he says, skills like accounting and statistics, but courses involving human resources have been especially valuable. In the online classroom, Paul who is 51, frequently interacts with students half his age. There is considerable online texting with digital natives who are more attuned to the medium. By and large, he notes, they are very respectful of him and each other. And with his extensive experience and business insights, Paul is an asset to many of them. The soon-to-be Isenberg graduate joined the online program in 2012, following his own thorough search for options among top-flight business schools. Since then, Paul has taken two courses each semester. “My professors have consistently been available,” he says, “and Tania Fuller, my online program advisor, has been a tremendous resource throughout—always helpful.” After graduation, Paul anticipates a possible void without courses on the horizon. Might an online MBA be in the cards? “That’s a real possibility,” he remarks. “And Isenberg would certainly be high on my list of business schools.” You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.