We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Does anyone know the return policy for Presiloompas? I can't get Wonka to return my calls. Host of @VVSGames Mondays at 8pm ET on @HashtagRoundup! You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. Literally hang up a phone. #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo jokes on you I hate calling in the phone so I tend to hang up real fast Literally is the keyword here. Does me doing this count?pic.twitter.com/KUfz0lqjEI Yes. so you telling me, that i cant hang up my damn phone- I'm saying it's unlikely you physically hang it up on a wall. That's what the word literal means here. What if my landline isn't hung up on a wall? if I remember correctly, it's my mom who would have "you hang up, no you hang up!" battles, well I will hang up on my friends for any reason I choose. try again. But do you literally hang your phone up to do it? i had landline until last year, so not anymore, but when i was younger, yes. jokes on you I do that whenever I’m lucky enough to be able to pick up the phone at school I miss slamming the phone down to hang up on people! It was so cathartic! So satisfying and yet so rare to fetvsuch satisfaction my house phone is on the wall??? i use it a lot too since i dont have cellphone reception in the forest Wow, why do we still say that?! It makes no sense anymore! I had a little Bluetooth speaker playing music and my 12 year old nephew wanted to say something, so he picks it up and goes “STOP. PAUSE. ALEXA STOP!” I’m like... “just press the stop button.” It was a speaker. It was very clearly not Alexa. It’s like he was the primitive version of a human and he didn’t know how to make the sounds stop. Watching him talk to this speaker was eye opening. So my point is, don’t think they could handle hanging up the phone. and SLAM that ish too to let people know how mad you were hahaha  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.