This article was published on June 27, 2019 by the UMass Amherst News & Media Relations office.  Transit Services celebrated its 50th anniversary of providing public bus service for the campus community on Friday, June 14 and Saturday, June 15. Around 160 alumni, spanning the full 50 years, attended the weekend-long celebration. The weekend began with a reception in Old Chapel. Paul Jablonski, a former campus bus driver and current CEO at the San Diego Metropolitan Transit System, was a featured speaker. This article was published on April 12, 2013 on the Daily Collegian online publication.  University of Massachusetts sophomore Jen DePlanche runs out of her dorm and through the concourse of the Southwest Residential Area at 6:50 a.m. on her way across campus to get behind the wheel of a blue and orange Pioneer Valley Transit Authority bus — taunts by peers fresh in her head. “Can you even reach the pedals?” they ask the 5-foot-3 DePlanche. “Shut up, they’re adjustable,” she replies. One of more than 150 students who serve an on-campus community of over 12,000, DePlanche works as a driver for UMass Transit, which operates PVTA service in the Five College area. This story was published on August 13, 2014 in the UMass Amherst News & Media Relations online publication.  Eleven thousand, three-hundred, some-odd: that is the number of parking spaces in Jonathan “Jon” King’s new domain as manager of Parking Services. At the same time, King – who succeeded Michael Brennan as parking chief on June 1 – is quick to point out that for many people on campus, a parking space is more than a couple of lines on the asphalt. “For a lot of people, it is a pretty personal thing,” said King. “People take it very seriously and very personally.” This story was published on June 11, 2015 in the UMass Amherst News & Media Relations online publication.  As part of the construction of the new Physical Sciences Building, the metered parking lot south of the Lederle Graduate Research Center lowrise has been permanently closed. A new Lot 61 reserved for long-term handicapped parking has been opened between the Lederle GRC lowrise and tower. Access is from Governors Drive. The new lot includes four 15-minute loading zone spaces. This story was published on April 22, 2015 in the UMass Amherst News & Media online publication.  AMHERST, Mass. – As the nation marks Earth Day, the University of Massachusetts Amherst is rated as one of the top 50 most environmentally responsible colleges, according to the just-released The Princeton Review’s Guide to 353 Green Colleges. Ranked 21st, UMass Amherst is cited for its alternative transportation options, including the bike share program provided by the Student Government Association, facilities for cyclists, a car-sharing program, carpooling and ridesharing, and transit services for students, faculty and staff, and a policy against motor vehicle idling. parking@umass.edu (413) 577-PARK (7275)  transit@umass.edu (413) 545-0056  transport@umass.edu (413) 545-4682