Faculty at the University of Massachusetts Amherst College of Nursing specialize in a wide range of research topics and are proud to be conducting industry-advancing research. Much of that research is made possible through grants from government agencies, cooperations, and non-profit organizations. Learn more about some of those research projects below.  The purpose of Dr. Hamilton's project is to test whether daily monitoring of fatigue and sleep using a wrist-worn device can improve self-management and aid in the early detection of the signs and symptoms of circulatory fluid overload in individuals with heart failure. The purpose of Dr. Carrie-Ellen Briere's project is to explore the relationship between mothers’ sleep loss and human milk composition. If a relationship exists, interventions to improve the self-management of sleep loss and sleep deprivation in new mothers will be tested. Yeonsik Noh, PhD, Assistant Professor, College of Nursing/ Electrical and Computer Engineering Department (as co-PI) and Sunghoon Ivan Lee, PhD, Assistant Professor in the College of Information and Computer Sciences, are the winners of the Armstrong Fund for Sci Dr. Rachel Walker and Co-PI Dr. A team led by Mary Paterno, PhD, CNM is one of ten team winners of Phase 1 of the Health Resources and Services Administration’s (HRSA) Maternal Child Health Bureau (MCHB) “Addressing Opioid Use Disorder in Pregnant Women and New Moms”  The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master’s degree program in nursing and Doctor of Nursing Practice degree program at the University of Massachusetts Amherst College of Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The baccalaureate degree program is fully approved by the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Nursing. The University of Massachusetts Amherst is accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE; formerly the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges).     