Jump to navigation The Assistive Technology Center (ATC), located on the Lower Level of the W.E.B. DuBois Library in the Learning Commons, offers instruction, training, and support for assistive technology tools to any member of the University community. The ATC provides a workspace and access to specialized software, equipment, and tools for individuals with an ADA-defined disability. Browse a detailed list of resources and software available for use in the ATC or for download on your personal device. Review a collection of accessibility resources for webpages and web design, multimedia, electronic documents, electronic instructional materials, and classroom delivery considerations. Keep up to date about new assistive technology tools, and other great things happening at the ATC. Check it out on iTunes, Stitcher, Google Play, TuneIn, and SoundCloud! We offer workshops, info-sessions, and events to help make teaching and learning more accessible. If you or your department are interested in a specific topic related to assistive technologies, we can develop and teach a tailored workshop. Event Schedule. Come to the Assistive Technology Center and get support and training with assistive technology tools. 413-545-9623, atc@umass.edu W.E.B. Du Bois Library, Lower Level, Room 43 Browse by topic or use the comprehensive search tool to find answers to your questions about the Assistive Technology Center and related services. Disability Services promotes the empowerment of people with disabilities and their full integration into campus life and the community. Services are provided for students, faculty, and staff with disabilities, so that they may successfully learn and work at UMass.  Short video about assistive technologies on the UMass Amherst campus. 413-545-9623 atc@umass.edu University of Massachusetts Amherst 154 Hicks Way W.E.B. Du Bois Library Lower Level, Room 43 Amherst, MA 01003  Have you heard about the UMass ATC AccessAbilities Podcast? Check it out on iTunes, Stitcher, Google Play, TuneIn, and SoundCloud!  © University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact