Effective August 1, 2009, the Motor Vehicle Review Board (VRB) is charged with reviewing and approving requests for the purchase, lease, or otherwise acquisition of UMass Amherst motor vehicles. Prior to entering requisitions, departments are required to fill out a Vehicle Request Form to be submitted to the Transportation Office Transport [at] umass.edu for review by the Board. Please note: that departments purchasing Non-Alternative Fuel Vehicles will be assessed a $1,000.00 charge per the Alternative Fueled Vehicle Requirements link below. The assessed charge will be processed by a campus recharge done by Transportation Services. The Federal Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPAct) requires vehicle fleets to acquire alternative fuel vehicles (AFVs). The University of Massachusetts’ fleet is governed by EPAct. Departments purchasing non-alternative fuel vehicles will be assessed a $1000.00 fee in order for the University to purchase credits towards compliance with EPAct regulations The assessed charge will be processed by a campus recharge done by Transportation Services. For complete information, visit: http://www1.eere.energy.gov/vehiclesandfuels/epact/ Enterprise Rent-A-Car maintains an on-campus office in the Transportation offices. University Departments now have access to rental cars, vans, and trucks through Enterprise Rent–A–Car. Call 413-577-7368 or, go online to http://www.umass.edu/rentalcar Effective July 1, 2010, all campus vehicles will be issued a Wright Express Fuel Card (WEX). This fuel card will be useable at the Campus Pumps and off-campus at authorized locations. Look for the WEX logo at the pump before starting your transaction. All fuel purchases will be processed by a campus recharge through Fleet Operations. More information is available at www.umass.edu/vehicle. Please contact Fleet Operations at (413)545-4682 or transport [at] umass.edu to request a new or replacement fuel card for your vehicle -or- to Add/Subtract an authorized driver in the fuel system. For information regarding vehicle disposal, sale, or internal transfer Visit http://www.umass.edu/procurement/surplus.html parking@umass.edu (413) 577-PARK (7275)  transit@umass.edu (413) 545-0056  transport@umass.edu (413) 545-4682