We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes It’s our job to #GoThere & tell the most difficult stories. Join us! For more breaking news updates follow @CNNBRK & Download our app ?http://cnn.com/apps You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. Republican strategist @ananavarro says the GOP will spin Dan Bishop's narrow victory in the special election in North Carolina's 9th Congressional District as a "big win," but says "warning signs" are there: "They were there in 2018 and they are there now" http://cnn.it/2LpDlfp pic.twitter.com/eInJEkjaIW Has she ever worked on a GOP campaign? Not a winning one They had a horrible 2 weeks...so yeah they will celebrate this victory yo high heaven. It won't last. Trump is still at the helm.pic.twitter.com/WvdpjWd83l Not even close. Whatever gets you through the day. Democratic will loose big bc they are in resistance too much and no leadership Anna’s just there for the donuts  The warning sign is how much cash Dems burn trying to win these special elections. Trumps presence helps, America First policies help. In the end, Trump will be best when he represents his policies and successes in 2020. That's where the energy and support will be highest. So one candidate lost but there are signs? Another words they GOT BEAT #powertothepeople Congrats on the close win God bless you our super power soldier I don’t believe he won. Don’t that have software accessible remote there GOP has the remote access and they’re using it . Practice makes perfect for 2020. I want a recount of Union County. How did they come in before much smaller counties with extended hours. This milk smells funky  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.