We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes It’s our job to #GoThere & tell the most difficult stories. Join us! For more breaking news updates follow @CNNBRK & Download our app ?http://cnn.com/apps You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. "If I'm the Republican, I'm real nervous. This is not a competitive seat. Shouldn't even be playing ball here. This should be a layup seat. But they had to spend millions just to hold it by two points." - Former GOP Rep. Charlie Dent on NC special election http://cnn.it/2LpDlfp pic.twitter.com/FnUwSf83Rc Spin it baby! Got to make a victory look like a loss! A win is a win. Simple. Dear Diary If it had been a DEM WIN they would be declaring that 2.2% A MANDATE! There is a reason he is a “former” GOP Rep - he took his Leftist pills and now is unelectable in the area.pic.twitter.com/nEptbBteQb And yet........ Still lost GOP won! Woo Hoo Yes Thank you, Mr President!! “Despite being massively outspent by Democrats, @realDonaldTrump rallied voters and put Bishop over the top," McDaniel said. "A huge win for the president and our grassroots field program that's working hard to elect Republicans in 2020!" Yeah, okay pic.twitter.com/jCb8K62ihU HATERS!! HA HA!! WE REPUBLICAN'S ARE WINNING BELIEVE THAT!! 2020 IS GOING TO BE A HUGE BIG WIN BECAUSE WE ARE TAKING IT ALL!! THE HOUSE THE PRESIDENCY SO THIS WIN & EVERY WIN IS GOING TO BE A BIG BIG WIN! LOL! WE SHOULD BE WORRIED? NOT!! pic.twitter.com/PVT72WVBV4 So if the Dem won it be a different story. You so predictable. We won! Digest it slowly! I realize it is difficult but you can do it! On & on they go. The sky is falling. Nice to see that since 2016 that CNN is no better at political polling. If u win the Super Bowl by a field goal, guess what. U take the whole trophy and a ring home. Not half. LOL. A WIN IS A WIN. AND WE WILL TAKE OUR WIN, NOW AND IN 2020. LOL. @realDonaldTrump @FoxNews  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.