We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Multiple people have been stabbed in an industrial area in Tallahassee, Florida. A suspect is in custody.http://apne.ws/SS39dQC #Breaking Tallahassee #Floridapic.twitter.com/NjpBRxrQ7M BREAKING- Multiple stab victims outside Dike Industries in between Coca Cola in Tallahassee. Stabbings occurred at 8:37am. The suspect is in custody. No current threat to public safety. No details given on those injured or the suspect: Tallahassee PD Tallahassee Memorial HealthCare says it has received 6 people from stabbing incident inside a commercial-industrial complex: "They are currently being evaluated by our medical team." Just talked to a woman who said her husband arrived for a job interview today and was stabbed five times. She heard the whole incident over the phone TPD’s Damon Miller on Wednesday’s stabbing at Dyke Industriespic.twitter.com/guQDvOXPX0 Several employees of Dyke just walked out. Said they weren’t allowed to talk to me TPD will be holding a press conference this afternoon, no time confirmed, to address this morning’s stabbing. Interim Chief Steve Outlaw is also headed to the scene BREAKING: 'Multiple stabbing victims' as Tallahassee police investigate incident at Coca-Cola plant https://www.tallahassee.com/story/news/2019/09/11/multiple-stabbing-victims-tallahassee-police-investigate-incident-coca-cola-plant/2284491001/ … via @tdonline You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.