The Journal of Nursing Regulation (JNR) is a peer-reviewed, academic/professional journal published quarterly in January, April, July and October. It provides a worldwide forum for sharing research, evidence-based practice, and innovative strategies and solutions related to nursing regulation and practice. The Journal of Nursing Regulation is available online. Questions or comments may be directed to jnr@ncsbn.org. Publication Offered as a free gift to newly licensed nurses in honor of its 40th anniversary, NCSBN created this 50-page booklet as a resource to help nurses better understand nursing regulation and their board of nursing (BON). 2018 | Publication A resource manual and guidelines for alternative and disciplinary monitoring programs. 2011 | Publication With a wealth of helpful guidelines and assessment tools, Nursing Pathways for Patient Safety makes it easy to identify the causes of practice breakdowns and to reduce health care errors. 2010 | Publication This book explores the NCSBN organization's origins and its work from 1978-2003, as well as the historical role of nursing regulation. 2009 | Publication This resource provides boards of nursing with practical guidelines in making decisions about sexual misconduct cases in their mission of public protection. 2009 | Publication This brochure helps nursing students, educators, health care organizations and the public understand and apply the concepts of professional boundaries between a nurse and a client. 2018 | Publication This poster is designed to help both new and experienced nurses understand how social media can be properly used in the profession without breaking patient privacy and confidentiality laws. This is a companion piece to A Nurse's Guide to the Use of Social Media. 2018 | Publication This poster is designed to help both new and experienced nurses understand how social media can be properly used in the profession without breaking patient privacy and confidentiality laws. This is a companion piece to A Nurse's Guide to the Use of Social Media. 2018 | Publication This brochure offers nurses an explanation of what boards of nursing (BONs) do for the profession and those who work in it. This brochure provides information regarding: 2018 | Publication This brochure is designed to help both new and experienced nurses understand how social media can be properly used in the profession without breaking patient privacy and confidentiality laws. It outlines: 2018 | Publication This brochure explains how a board of nursing protects the public and 2018 | Publication Substance use disorder (SUD) is rarely discussed on nursing units. It is the responsibility of a nurse manager, however, to provide education, dispel myths and take action when needed. This brochure outlines the roles and responsibilities of the nurse manager in situations involving SUD. 2018 | Publication This brochure explains how substance use disorder (SUD) affects the nursing profession. Nurses have a legal ethical responsibility to report a colleague’s suspected drug use; learn how to recognize the warning signs and what to do to get a colleague help. Nurses that educate themselves about SUD help not only their colleagues, but they also protect patients. 2018 | Publication 2018 | Publication 2018 | Publication NCSBN depends on nurses to assist in the NCLEX item development process. 2017 | Publication This brochure is for candidates who have just completed the NCLEX. Here, candidates can find information on how their results are processed, what happens if they don’t pass the exam, the NCLEX Quick Results Service, and who they can contact if they have a problem with the NCLEX or its administration. 2015 | Publication This brochure explains the importance of advanced practiced registered nurses (APRNs) in health care, and how access to care could be increased if APRNs are allowed to practice to the full extent of their education and training in all states. This brochure also explains the APRN Consensus Model, which if adopted, would reduce barriers to care in all jurisdictions. 2012 | Publication This brochure explains the importance of nurse licensure, including: 2011 | Publication The NCLEX-RN examination test plan includes an in-depth overview of the content categories along with details about the administration of the exam as well as NCLEX-style item writing exercises and case scenario examples. *Dans cette publication, le masculin est employé sans préjudice afin d’alléger le texte.  2019 | Publication This resource serves as your guide from before to after the NCLEX, including important contact information, details on how to register, the NCLEX Candidate Rules and results processing. 2018 | Publication Highlights for before, during and after the NCLEX. Includes information on The Eight Steps of the NCLEX, acceptable identification and rules for scheduling/rescheduling your appointment. 2018 | Publication Offered as a free gift to newly licensed nurses in honor of its 40th anniversary, NCSBN created this 50-page booklet as a resource to help nurses better understand nursing regulation and their board of nursing (BON). 2018 | Publication The NCLEX-PN test plan includes an overview of the content categories along with details about the administration of the exam. 2016 | Publication The educator version of the 2016 NCLEX-RN Test Plan includes an in-depth overview of the content categories along with details about the administration of the exam. 2016 | Publication The detailed version of the NCLEX-PN examination test plan includes an in-depth overview of the content categories along with details about the administration of the exam as well as NCLEX-style item writing exercises and case scenario examples. 2016 | Publication The candidate version of the NCLEX-RN examination test plan includes an in-depth overview of the content categories along with details about the administration of the exam. *Dans cette publication, le masculin est employé sans préjudice afin d’alléger le texte. 2016 | Publication The basic NCLEX-RN test plan includes an overview of the content categories along with details about the administration of the exam. 2015 | Publication 2014 | Publication The NCLEX examination test plan provides a concise summary of the content and scope of the examination. The test plan also serves as a guide for both examination development and candidate preparation. 2014 | Publication Contains a listing of all the Nurse Aide Registries, along with who maintains the registries and who investigates complaints in each state. Updated annually. 2011 | Publication The NCSBN Public Policy Agenda delineates the organization's policy goals, highlights the organization's policy activities and outlines what you need to know about NCSBN. 2011 | Publication An online publication that provides an overview of the regulatory environment in which the 60 boards of nursing function. Visit the Nursing Research section to download various report sections. Updated annually. 2010 | Publication These emergency operations guidelines for boards of nursing are designed to assist boards of nursing in developing a rapid-response approach that allows for fluid continuity of core business operations in the event of a catastrophe. This guide outlines how information is gathered, channeled and assessed, when decisions are made and communicated, and what essential operations are to be maintained. 2008 | Publication This subscription service is a semi-annual or annual, comparative review of a program's performance that is designed to help educators and administrators identify their program's areas of strength and weakness. specific and national comparison reports of graduates' performances on the NCLEX examination. Performance results, test plan profiles and content dimension reports are all included. Jurisdictional and national rankings are used to describe the program's strengths and weakness with regard to the following: Program-specific information is reported provided for at least 10 first-time candidates tested within the six-month reporting period. Candidate-specific information is not available. Reports are released in May and November; subscriptions are open to nursing schools only. Subscriptions for NCLEX-RN Program and NCLEX-PN Program Semi-Annual or Annual Reports are currently $350.00 and $225.00 respectively. Additionally, a joint annual and semi-annual subscription is $525 for RN programs and $337.5 for PN programs. The NCLEX program reports will be available for subscription by Canadian nursing programs in 2015. To order, please call 1.800.261.6227 or visit NCLEX Program Reports. Publication This subscription service is a semi-annual or annual, comparative review of a program's performance that is designed to help educators and administrators identify their program's areas of strength and weakness. specific and national comparison reports of graduates' performances on the NCLEX examination. Performance results, test plan profiles and content dimension reports are all included. Jurisdictional and national rankings are used to describe the program's strengths and weakness with regard to the following: Program-specific information is reported provided for at least 10 first-time candidates tested within the six-month reporting period. Candidate-specific information is not available. Reports are released in May and November; subscriptions are open to nursing schools only. Subscriptions for NCLEX-RN Program and NCLEX-PN Program Semi-Annual or Annual Reports are currently $350.00 and $225.00 respectively. Additionally, a joint annual and semi-annual subscription is $525 for RN programs and $337.5 for PN programs. The NCLEX program reports will be available for subscription by Canadian nursing programs in 2015. To order, please call 1.800.261.6227 or visit NCLEX Program Reports. Publication Join hundreds of educators across the country who subscribe to NCLEX Program Reports. These reports are the only source for detailed information about your graduates' performance on the NCLEX examinations. Publication The NCSBN Model Act and Rules: 2017 | Publication 2017 | Publication The Tri-Regulator Collaborative is urging that steps be taken by all stakeholders to bring uniformity and interoperability to EHRs across all practice settings. 2017 | Publication The 2017 NCSBN Environmental Scan represents a systematic and continuous effort to search for information about how nursing is evolving, and what that means for the future of nursing regulation. A variety of sources have been used to compile this document. Of course, this publication represents a mere snapshot in time of the world around us - both inside and outside of nursing regulation. It was distributed as a supplement to the Journal of Nursing Regulation in January 2017. 2017 | Publication NCSBN’s 2015-16 Nursing Education Trends Committee was charged by the Board of Directors to explore and identify trends and issues in the regulatory oversight of nursing education programs. This report summarizes the committee findings and includes the literature review that was developed as a foundation for this work. 2016 | Publication The nursing shortage has led to an influx of nurses educated outside of the United States. The Resource Manual for Licensure of International Nurses was developed as a user-friendly resource for boards of nursing. 2016 | Publication A Comparison of Selected Military Health Care Occupation Curricula with a Standard Licensed Practical/Vocational Curriculum. 2016 | Publication 2014 | Publication Background and literature review on the regulation of prelicensure distance education programs; regulatory issues; recommendations for BONs; visual model and timeline for adopting the recommendations. 2014 | Publication Regulatory Implications and Recommendations for Distance Education in Prelicensure Nursing Programs." Description: This article provides the background and related literature findings for the recommendations that NCSBN's Distance Learning Education Committee made for prelicensure nursing programs. These recommendations were adopted at NCSBN's 2014 annual meeting. Further, regulator and educator issues are explored. Five regulatory guidelines are explained, and a timeline for BONs meeting these recommendations is described. Citation: Lower, B. & Spector, N. (2014). Regulatory implications and recommendations for distance education in prelicensure nursing programs. Journal of Nursing Regulation, 5(3), 24-33. 2014 | Publication In the 1990s the increasing use of telecommunication technology to provide nursing services raised the question whether nursing services delivered through broadband and electronic channels constituted the practice of nursing. NCSBN recognizes nursing practice provided through broadband and electronic channels as the practice of nursing and thus asserts that the regulation of telehealth nursing is appropriately done by boards of nursing. 2014 | Publication Tri-Regulator Collaborative express its support for interprofessional collaboration and a team-based approach to patient care. 2014 | Publication The Tri-Regulator Collaborative affirms that in a consumer protection model, health care practice occurs where the recipient of health care services is located. 2014 | Publication The NCSBN Model Act and Rules are exemplary legislation that can be adopted by a BON. The current Model Act & Rules were developed by a NCSBN committee, approved by the Delegate Assembly in 2012 and updated in 2014. 2014 | Publication 2014 | Publication Changes in Healthcare Professions’ Scope of Practice: Legislative Considerations is a result of a collaborative effort in 2006 by representatives from six healthcare regulatory organizations. It has been developed to assist legislators and regulatory bodies in making policy decisions related to healthcare professions’ scopes of practice. 2012 | Publication This is Part II of the Nursing Education Committee document, which contains strategies for moving forward on the future of approval of BONs. As part of this work, the committee members hosted a World Cafe' meeting, where the participants dialogued about the alignment of approval, education and accreditation. See the monograph that resulted from that World Cafe' meeting. 2012 | Publication NCSBN's Disciplinary Resources Committee studied the increasing use and misuse of social media in health care. 2011 | Publication NCSBN's Nursing Education Committee wrote a report on the first year of their work in analyzing and making recommendations for the future of approval by Boards of Nursing. This report was approved in May 2011, by NCSBN's Board of Directors. 2011 | Publication Uniform Licensure Requirements (ULRs) are the essential prerequisites for initial, endorsement, renewal and reinstatement licensure needed across every NCSBN jurisdiction to ensure the safe and competent practice of nursing. ULRs protect the public by setting consistent standards and promoting a health care system that is fluid and accessible by removing barriers to care and maximizing portability for nurses. They also assure the consumer that a nurse in one state has met the requirements of the nurses in every other state. ULRs support the fact that the expectations for the education of a nurse and the responsibilities of a nurse are the same throughout every NCSBN member board jurisdiction in the United States. 2011 | Publication The development, administration and future direction of the NCLEX examinations is guided by the core values of NCSBN, which include collaboration, excellence, innovation, integrity and transparency in advancing regulatory excellence worldwide. This article is intended to provide information about the development and administration of the NCLEX examination as it relates to the cores values of NCSBN. 2011 | Publication Explains the methodology used to assess the readbility of the NNAAP Examination. 2010 | Publication Position statement on the advancement of Nursing Education. NCSBN's Board of Directors endorses continued learning at all levels of nursing and supports the Tri-Council consensus policy on the advancement of Nursing Education. 2010 | Publication This report of the Innovations in Education Regulation Committee details the history of the committee and presents the definitions and recommendations; a synopsis of the literature; a full report from the collaborative call held with education leaders; and a discussion of the influences that affect innovations, particularly regulatory influences. 2009 | Publication A summary of the results of a non-experimental survey to investigate the effects of medication aides/assistants (med aides) on job losses in long-term care settings. 2009 | Publication This report is a companion to the Transition to Practice Report. This is a comprehensive report of all the evidence identified by the Transition to Practice Committee that is relevant to a regulatory transition model. This report was adopted by the May, 2008 NCSBN Board of Directors. 2008 | Publication Faculty Qualifications. 2008 | Publication This paper compares the European Tuning model of nursing education with : AACN's Baccalaureate Essentials; NCLEX Activity Statements; NLN Associate Degree Competencies, and the QSEN Competencies. 2008 | Publication Gain a better understanding of the requirements for adopting the Consensus Model for APRN Regulation. 2008 | Publication This report is a companion to the Transition Evidence Grid. The report synthesizes all the evidence on transitioning new nurses to practice. It illustrates the importance of formal transition programs in protecting the public, and it provides the data that support the components of the Transition Regulatory Model. This report was adopted by the May, 2008 NCSBN Board of Directors. 2008 | Publication NCSBN surveyed Boards of Nursing to see which jurisdictions have core curricula, and these are outlined in this document. This document also contains a list of nursing program definitions by the education consultants of Boards of Nursing (such as one-plus-one, PN Exit, generalist, etc) because the terminology has become confusing. 2007 | Publication Document for assessing whether students have mastered the major areas of content. Each module contains recommended didactic and skills hours, as well as objectives, a content outline, evaluation criteria, and suggested references. 2007 | Publication The Medication Assistant Curriculum was adopted by the 2007 Delegate Assembly for those boards that regulate medication assistants. The curriculum includes a preamble that explains the use of the curriculum, the background of its development, recommended hours of training and admission requirements, and defines the terms being used. The curriculum itself includes 5 didactic modules in medication fundamentals, safety, communication and documentation, medication administration, and ethical legal, along with a clinical practicum module. 2007 | Publication Nursing regulation exists to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public in their receipt of nursing services–and much more. The complete scope of the guiding principles of nursing regulation are found in this paper. 2007 | Publication This report was written after 4 years of work identifying evidence-based nursing education strategies that are essential for preparing new nurses for safe entry-level practice. These recommendations are based on a systematic review of outcomes research in nursing education, as well as NCSBN's own education studies. Adopted August, 2006. 2006 | Publication 2005 | Publication This paper critically reviews the available research on methodologies used to educate nurses, particularly looking at those studies that identify outcomes. Specified criteria were used for selecting the studies, and each study was reviewed with regard to: sample, comparison studied, procedures, key results, strengths and weaknesses, and implications for boards of nursing. Adopted August, 2005. 2005 | Publication This paper was written after NCSBN brought in a focus group of LPN/VN experts from around the country. The paper reviews the rich discussion that took place at the focus group, presents internal and external research findings of the PN scope of practice, and reviews surveys that were sent to boards of nursing and external PN groups. The paper makes six recommendations. Adopted August, 2005. 2005 | Publication The paper builds upon historical and conceptual NCSBN papers on delegation by reaffirming the delegation decision-making process while adapting it to the realities of the current nursing workplace. It discusses issues impacting the preparation of nurses to delegate as well as the use of delegation in the management of nursing care. 2005 | Publication Increasingly licensing boards are being challenged to provide assurance to the public that licensees meet minimum levels of competence throughout their careers, not only at the time of entry and initial licensure. This paper explores environmental factors and analysis of issues regarding continued competence in nursing. 2005 | Publication This position paper identifies premises and defines relevant terms. There is a review of selected nursing education research and articles, and the committee members who wrote this paper consulted with simulation experts and participated in actual simulation. Input was sought from the boards of nursing and stakeholders. Five recommendations were made. Adopted August, 2005 2005 | Publication This paper reviews the history of approval/accreditation in the U.S. as well as the international view of the regulation of nursing programs. The six models used by the U.S. boards of nursing to approve/accredit nursing programs are identified, recommendations are made, and future trends are identified. Adopted August, 2004 2004 | Publication This annual publication provides national and state summary data of member boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN Examinations. On Jan. 5, 2015, the first candidates were able to take the NCLEX-RN for purposes of licensure/registration in Canada. This publication provides a detailed breakdown of candidate performance for 2018, as well as historical data. 2019 | Publication This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in licensed practical/vocational nurse (LPN/VN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. 2019 | Research Item This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in licensed practical/vocational nurse (LPN/VN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. 2019 | Research Item This annual publication provides national and state summary data of member boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN Examinations. On Jan. 5, 2015, the first candidates were able to take the NCLEX-RN for purposes of licensure/registration in Canada. This publication provides a detailed breakdown of candidate performance for 2017, as well as historical data. 2018 | Publication This study identifies the knowledge needed by newly licensed RNs. The results of this study will be used to inform item development. 2018 | Research Item This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the NCLEX-RN test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in registered nurse (RN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. This publication analyzes the U.S. & Canadian nurse testing populations. 2018 | Research Item NCSBN is focused on establishing the validity and legal defensibility of the NCLEX-RN by ensuring it is comprehensive and that it aligns with the requirements of the nursing profession as it is currently practiced. To keep pace with the changing requirements of the job, NCSBN partnered with a research firm to conduct two studies as part of strategic job analyses of the RN job from 2012 through 2014. The Strategic Practice Analysis is the summary of their findings. 2018 | Research Item This annual publication provides national and state summary data of member boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN Examinations. On Jan. 5, 2015, the first candidates were able to take the NCLEX-RN for purposes of licensure/registration in Canada. This publication provides a detailed breakdown of candidate performance for 2016, as well as historical data. 2017 | Research Item This study reports the activities performed and the essential knowledge needed by certified entry-level medication aides/medication assistants (MAs) employed in various health care settings. The findings from this study are used to evaluate the validity of the test plan, content outline and examination questions for the MA certification examination. 2017 | Research Item This annual publication provides national and state summary data of member boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN Examinations. 2016 | Research Item This study identifies the knowledge needed by newly licensed practical/vocational nurses (LPN/VNs). The results of this study (i.e., the important knowledge statements) will be used to inform item development. 2016 | Research Item This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in licensed practical/vocational nurse (LPN/VN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. 2016 | Research Item This study reports the importance ratings for activities performed by certified entry-level nurse aides/nursing assistants (NAs) employed in various health care settings. The findings from this study are used to evaluate the validity of the test plan, content outline and examination questions for the nurse aide certification examination. 2015 | Research Item This annual publication provides national and state summary data of member boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN Examinations. 2015 | Research Item This study identifies the knowledge needed by newly licensed RNs. The results of this study (i.e., the important knowledge statements) will be used to inform item development. 2015 | Research Item A practice analysis study aims to investigate the applicability of the 2013 NCLEX-RN Test Plan. This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in registered nurse (RN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. This publication analyzes both the U.S. and Canadian nurse testing populations. 2015 | Research Item A practice analysis study aims to investigate the applicability of the 2013 NCLEX-RN Test Plan to the Canadian testing population. The study surveyed Canadian entry-level registered nurses (RNs) and found similar results with those obtained from U.S. entry-level RNs. It validates the applicability of the 2013 NCLEX-RN Test Plan to the Canadian testing population. 2014 | Research Item This annual publication provides national and state summary data of member boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN Examinations. 2014 | Research Item This study identifies the knowledge needed by newly licensed practical/vocational nurses (LPN/VNs). The results of this study (i.e., the important knowledge statements) will be used to inform item development. 2013 | Research Item This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in licensed practical/vocational nurse (LPN/VN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. 2013 | Research Item This annual publication provides national and state summary data of member boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN Examinations. 2013 | Research Item This study identifies the knowledge needed by newly licensed RNs. The results of this study (i.e., the important knowledge statements) will be used to inform item development. 2012 | Research Item The First National Survey of Medication Aides was developed with the goal of providing insights into medication aide (MA) education, training, supervision and work role from the MA perspective. The results will help regulators make decisions about the implementation or development of safe and effective MA programs. 2012 | Research Item This study identifies the knowledge needed by certified entry-level medication aides/assistants. The results of this study (i.e., the important knowledge statements) will be used to assist item development. 2012 | Research Item This study reports the importance ratings for activities performed by certified entry-level medication aides/medication assistants (MAs) employed in various health care settings. The findings from this study are used to evaluate the validity of the test plan, content outline and examination questions for the MA certification examination. 2012 | Research Item This annual publication provides national and state summary data of member boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN Examinations. 2010, 2012 | Research Item This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in registered nurse (RN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. 2011 | Research Item This study describes LPN/VN practice to assist NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. (© 2010) 2010 | Research Item This annual publication provides national and state summary data of Member Boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN examinations. (© 2010) 2010 | Research Item This study reports the importance ratings for activities performed by certified entry-level nurse aides/nursing assistants (NAs) employed in various health care settings. The findings from this study are used to evaluate the validity of the test plan, content outline and examination questions for the nurse aide certification examination. (© 2010) 2010 | Research Item This study is to identify the knowledge needed by newly-licensed LPN/VNs. The results of this study (i.e., the important knowledge statements) will be used to inform item development. (© 2010) 2010 | Research Item This study reports the importance ratings of statements listing the knowledge needed by certified entry-level nurse aides/nursing assistants (NAs) employed in various health care settings. The results of this study (i.e., the important knowledge statements) will be used to inform item development. (© 2010) 2010 | Research Item A new initiative seeks to understand the role of nurses and nursing education from an international perspective. The goal of this study was to evaluate the consistency of nursing educational competencies globally. (© 2010) 2010 | Research Item This study compares entry-level nursing activities of U.S. registered nurses with a cohort from Ontario, Canada. The College of Nurses of Ontario (CNO) collaborated with NCSBN on this initiative. (© 2010) 2010 | Research Item This study compares entry-level nursing activities of U.S. registered nurses with a cohort from British Columbia, Canada. The College of Registered Nurses of British Columbia (CRNBC) collaborated with NCSBN on this initiative. (© 2010) 2010 | Research Item This annual publication provides national and state summary data of Member Boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN examinations. (© 2009) 2009 | Research Item This study is to identify the knowledge needed by newly licensed RNs. The results of this study (i.e., the important knowledge statements) will be used to inform item development. (© 2009) 2009 | Research Item This volume focuses on the trends of disciplinary actions and the characteristics of disciplined nurses using 11 years of data from NCSBN’s Nursys databank of license and discipline information. (© 2009) 2009 | Research Item This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in registered nurse (RN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. (© 2009) 2009 | Research Item This study identifies factors that place nurses at risk for disciplinary action. This research describes and analyzes the characteristics of disciplined nurses and the influence of various environmental factors on remediation outcomes. (©2009) 2009 | Research Item This report explores the characteristics of registered and licensed practical/vocational nursing from entry through five years of practice to discover how nursing practice changed post-entry, when the changes occur, and the competencies needed by nurses with up to five years of experience. (© 2009) 2009 | Research Item In order to improve the process of conducting practice analyses, NCSBN undertook this comparability study to investigate two different survey administration methods: the traditional paper-and-pencil, mail-based survey versus an electronic, Web-based survey. (© 2008) 2008 | Research Item This annual publication provides national and state summary data of Member Boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN examinations. (© 2008) 2008 | Research Item This study compares the effectiveness of two survey administration methods of researching LPN/VN practice to assist NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. (© 2008) 2008 | Research Item This study describes post entry-level LPN/VN practice with the intention of determining if there are core nursing activity statements for LPN/VNs regardless of practice setting, specialty practice area and/or years of experience (© 2007) 2007 | Research Item This role delineation study provides data to boards of nursing to assist them in determining the level of regulation appropriate for nurse practitioners and clinical nurse specialists. 2007 | Research Item This study assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the NCLEX-RN examination. This study is the first to describe post entry-level RN practice to determine if there is a core set of RN activity statements that can be used to assess core RN competencies regardless of practice setting, specialty area and years of experience. (© 2007) 2007 | Research Item This study provides information on the activities performed by medication assistants (MAs). Results of this study can be used to describe MA practice across a variety of work settings and identify core MA activities (© 2007) 2007 | Research Item This study describes LPN/VN practice to assist NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination.(© 2007) 2007 | Research Item A National Survey links the elements of nursing education to perceived preparedness of new graduates for nursing practice (© 2006). 2006 | Research Item This annual publication provides national and state summary data of Member Boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN examinations. (© 2006) 2006 | Research Item Practice and Professional Issues Surveys are conducted by NCSBN to collect information from entry-level nurses to measure the preparation for practice and describe the transition activities of newly licensed RNs and LPN/VNs. The study also explores the relationship between educational preparation and involvement with medical errors (©2006). 2006 | Research Item This study provides information on the activities performed by nurse aides employed in nursing homes, home health care agencies and hospitals. (© 2006) 2006 | Research Item The purpose of this practice analysis is to describe and compare the practice characteristics and activities of newly licensed registered nurses (RNs). The empirical findings are used to evaluate the 2007 NCLEX-RN Test Plan (© 2005). 2005 | Research Item NCSBN performs job (practice) analysis studies every three years. This is an executive summary of the 2005 RN Practice Analysis. 2005 | Publication This annual publication provides national and state summary data of Member Boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN examinations. (© 2005) 2005 | Research Item Practice and Professional Issues Surveys are conducted twice a year by NCSBN to collect information from entry-level nurses on specific practice activities and current professional issues. 2004 | Research Item NCSBN has collected a wealth of information on a variety of regulatory topics. Prominent among those topics has been the preparation of new nurses for the practice setting and the issues surrounding the appropriate preparation and utilization of assistive personnel. Information has been gleaned on these topics from newly licensed nurses and assistive personnel. This study was designed to obtain the unique perspectives of health care employers on these issues. 2004 | Research Item This annual publication provides national and state summary data of Member Boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN examinations. (© 2004) 2004 | Research Item The purpose of the Practice and Professional Issues (PPI) survey is to collect information from entry-level nurses on specific practice activities and current professional issues. The Winter 2003 PPI was designed to collect data from entry-level nurses educated in the U.S. and from nurses educated in foreign countries who had recently been licensed to practice in the U.S. 2004 | Research Item This volume describes an outcome-based performance measurement system for state and territorial boards of nursing. (© 2004) 2004 | Research Item This study evaluates the validity of the NNAAP blueprint. It provides information on the activities performed by nurse aides employed in nursing homes, home health care agencies and hospitals. (© 2003) 2003 | Publication This annual publication provides national and state summary data of Member Boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN examinations. (© 2003) 2003 | Research Item This practice analysis describes and compares the possible differences in the entry-level practices of newly licensed associate and baccalaureate degree nurses. (© 2004) 2003 | Research Item Establishment of a link between mandatory continuing education (CE) and the development of professional competence has been deemed crucial to future decision-making about the best methods of assuring the continued competence of health care practitioners. The NCSBN) Research department developed a research study to explore that issue. This report presents the results from registered nurse (RN) and licensed practical/vocational nurse (LPN/VN) study respondents. The study was conducted May through August of 2002. 2003 | Research Item Practice and Professional Issues Surveys are conducted twice a year by NCSBN to collect information from entry-level nurses on specific practice activities and current professional issues. Data is collected from nurses during their first six months of practice on activities they are performing as nurses and on selected issues surrounding that practice. This study was conducted October through December 2001. 2003 | Research Item Practice and Professional Issues Surveys are conducted twice a year by NCSBN to collect information from entry-level nurses on specific practice activities and current professional issues. Data is collected from nurses during their first six months of practice on activities they are performing as nurses and selected issues surrounding that practice. 2003 | Research Item This practice analysis describes and compares the practice characteristics and activities of newly licensed practical/vocational nurses (LPN/VNs). The empirical findings will be used to evaluate the 2005 NCLEX-PN Test Plan (© 2003). 2003 | Research Item This practice analysis describes and compares the practice characteristics and activities of newly licensed registered nurses (RNs). The empirical findings were used to evaluate the 2004 NCLEX-RN Test Plan. (© 2003) 2003 | Research Item Practice and Professional Issues surveys are conducted twice a year by NCSBN to collect information from entry-level nurses on specific practice activities and current professional issues. Data is collected from nurses during their first six months of practice on activities they are performing as nurses and selected issues surrounding that practice. 2002 | Research Item Empiric evidence from the NCSBN RN practice analyses has demonstrated that associate degree and baccalaureate degree graduates are hired into the same types of positions and perform the same tasks within their first six months of practice; however, the employers of entry-level nurses have not been systematically surveyed about their actual hiring and employment practices. This survey addressed those practices and also asked employers to rate new RNs and LPNs on their preparation for various practice tasks. 2002 | Research Item This annual publication provides national and state summary data of Member Boards’ licensure activities, as well as data on candidate performance on the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN examinations. (© 2002) 2002 | Research Item The purpose of this study is discovery of any potential differences between the entry-level practices of graduates of associate degree and baccalaureate degree RN educational programs (© 2002). 2002 | Research Item ©2019 National Council of State Boards of Nursing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.