Lightweight world champion Khabib Nurmagomedov defeats interim champion Dustin Poirier in their UFC 242 title unification bout in Abu Dhabi. Undefeated champion Khabib Nurmagomedov faces America's Dustin Poirier in the Abu Dhabi desert for UFC 242. Scotland's Joanne Calderwood moves closer to her title fight dream after defeating Andrea Lee in UFC 242. Belfast's Joe McColgan shares an entertaining draw in London as Derry's Paul Hughes secures a first round victory on debut. BBC Sport NI goes behind the scenes with 'the Strabanimal' James Gallagher as he prepares for his contest at Bellator in London on Saturday. Michael Bisping tells BBC Sport about going to prison, his acting career and who he thinks will be Britain's next UFC champion. From depression and the brink of bankruptcy to fighting in front of millions, Stevie Ray is preparing for two fights that could decide his UFC future. UFC fighter Molly 'Meatball' McCann invites a regular gym-goer to her training base at Liverpool John Moores University to try out a 15-minute training session. Leon Edwards says his mum introducing him to a mixed martial arts gym saved him from getting into trouble as a teenager. Darren Till talks to BBC Sport about knife crime, the challenge of moving to Brazil, and meeting former Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard. Before Molly McCann's fight at UFC London this Saturday, we decided to train with her for one day of her fight camp. UFC referee Marc Goddard tells BBC Sport about keeping the rules in the octagon, his MMA roots and clashing with Conor McGregor. BBC Sport throws it back to 1993, when the first UFC numbered event featured a boxer with one glove, non-existent weight divisions and a pair of very tight pants. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you The latest results and forthcoming fights in the Ultimate Fighting Championship. Documentary following a mixed martial arts fighter as he tries to lose 7kg overnight to hit his weight category. Mixed Martial Arts combats crime and anti-social behaviour by transforming lives of some young people in Northern Ireland. Check out the BBC Sport Live Guide for details of all the forthcoming live sport on the BBC. 'England will plan racism response' F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France Bayliss reflects on time with England I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad