The company that owns Vauxhall says it will halt UK investment while the Brexit outcome remains uncertain. The company that owns Vauxhall says it will halt UK investment while the Brexit outcome remains uncertain. Hiroto Saikawa faced fresh leadership scrutiny after saying he was overpaid as part of a bonus scheme. What Car? magazine experts say the latest models with keyless entry systems can easily be hijacked. The move would probably lead to the closure of the site, the FT says, threatening 1,000 jobs. It is unclear where the cuts will fall, but unions are hopeful the Sunderland plant will not be affected. The car maker says a plastic engine part can in "very rare cases" melt and cause a fire. The two car giants will work together on developing new technologies in an attempt to reduce costs. The company that owns Vauxhall says it will halt UK investment while the Brexit outcome remains uncertain. Hiroto Saikawa faced fresh leadership scrutiny after saying he was overpaid as part of a bonus scheme. What Car? magazine experts say the latest models with keyless entry systems can easily be hijacked. The move would probably lead to the closure of the site, the FT says, threatening 1,000 jobs. It is unclear where the cuts will fall, but unions are hopeful the Sunderland plant will not be affected. The car maker says a plastic engine part can in "very rare cases" melt and cause a fire. The two car giants will work together on developing new technologies in an attempt to reduce costs. Hiroto Saikawa faced fresh leadership scrutiny after saying he was overpaid as part of a bonus scheme. What Car? magazine experts say the latest models with keyless entry systems can easily be hijacked. The move would probably lead to the closure of the site, the FT says, threatening 1,000 jobs. BBC's international business correspondent tweets: Indian finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said millennials were not buying cars as they preferred Uber. BBC Radio 5 Live Wake Up To Money The Frankfurt Motor Show is taking place and the BBC's Theo Leggett has been speaking to car industry bosses about a number of issues, including Brexit. He explained on Radio 5 Live's Wake Up To Money that Jaguar Land Rover's Ralf Speth has been telling him about the important of fast movement of goods after Brexit. "In order to produce vehicles we need in the UK between 30 and 25 millions parts a day, delivered on time, in order to assemble a vehicle. and it if's guaranteed we have a frctionless trade ...then we can continue production. "But if we don't have the parts we need we will not produce the vehicle. And that will be an issue not only for us but also for the smaller suppliers". A continuing slowdown in one of the economy's biggest sectors is sparking fears of job losses. Theo Leggett Business correspondent, BBC News The company that owns Vauxhall says it will halt UK investment while the Brexit outcome remains uncertain. BBC's international business correspondent tweets: Vauxhall's owner is not the carmaker talking about Brexit. As mentioned earlier, BMW's finance chief has told the BBC that workers at the Mini plant in Oxford could see their shifts cut in the event of a no-deal Brexit. Nicolas Peter said production was likely to fall at the Cowley factory, affecting jobs. But he said BMW, which also makes Minis in the Netherlands, had no plans to "shift production" as yet. Read on. Vauxhall-owner PSA says it wil not invest in Ellesmere Port and Luton while the outcome Brexit remains unclear. That's according to Michael Lohscheller, chief executive of Opel which is part of the same group. "We cannot make investment decisions without knowing what will happen," Mr Lohscheller said at the Frankfurt Motor Show. "Brexit could disrupt supply chains in Europe as well as Britain. There are jobs and investments at stake. Everybody needs to be aware of the responsibility," Mr Lohscheller said. BBC's international business correspondent tweets: Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News