University Analytics and Institutional Research (UAIR), formerly the Office of Institutional Research (OIR), provides information and analysis that supports the decision-making process, complies with reporting requirements of external agencies, and responds to ad hoc requests for information. Many of the official statistics about the campus, and Academic Affairs in particular, are reported by UAIR. UMass at a Glance responds to many of the frequently asked questions about the campus covering topics such as students, faculty and staff, and finances. (Previous Years). The Admissions and Enrollment Report is a profile of admitted students, and a detailed listing of student majors and course enrollments by department or program and student level. Factsheets are one page documents on admissions, enrollment, degrees, faculty/staff and other topics of interest to the campus. The Factbook is a reference document for the campus with student, faculty, financial and other institutional data. Factbooks from 1967 and 1977 to the present are on this website. Departmental Profiles are trend analyses (10 years) reported at the departmental level: admissions, enrollment, degrees, instructional activity, senior survey, and sponsored activity. A Common Data Set (CDS) exists for most higher education institutions, and includes questions about admissions, transfer students, enrollment, and financial aid. The Organizational Chart and Fingertip Directory detail how the university is structured and who the key contacts are in many departments. (Previous organizational charts). The Performance Measurement System compares the University of Massachusetts with peer institutions in many areas, such as academic quality, access and affordability, student success and satisfaction, service to the Commonwealth and financial health. Strategic Planning data tables (UMass login required) These tables have been developed to support strategic planning within departments and schools and colleges. This information is provided for general use, and also to help departments and schools and colleges respond to the questions posed in Phase III unit planning. Public Disclosure The Public Disclosure/Student Consumer Information website provides answers to many questions asked by prospective and current students and their families. Miscellaneous Reports & Publications University Analytics and Institutional Research 237 Whitmore Admin. Building University of Massachusetts 181 Presidents Drive Amherst, MA 01003-9913 Phone: 413-545-0941 E-mail Us About us Staff Directory This site is maintained by The Office of Institutional Research. ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact