All four Englishwomen in Europe's Solheim Cup team feature in Friday's foursomes at Gleneagles with Bronte Law in the opening match. Format and schedule for the 2019 Solheim Cup between hosts Europe and holders United States at Gleneagles in Scotland. Team Europe hope home advantage counts while Team USA are aiming for a third consecutive win when the Solheim Cup starts on Friday. Northern Ireland's Rory McIlroy pips world number one Brooks Koepka to be named the PGA Tour Player of the Year for the 2018-19 season. Europe take on the United States at Gleneagles in the 2019 Solheim Cup - follow coverage on BBC TV and online. Solheim Cup Gleneagles (13-15 Sep) PGA Tour Military Tribute at Greenbrier (12-15 Sep) European Tour KLM Open, The International (12-15 Sep) LPGA Tour Indy Women in Tech Championship (26-29 Sep) Ladies European Tour Ladies Open de France (19-22 Sep) Rory McIlroy reflects on a season that's brought him the Players Championship and a stupendous round at the Canadian Open. Europe vice-captain Mel Reid backs Catriona Matthew's wildcard pick in selecting Suzann Pettersen for her ninth Solheim Cup. One week on from the last major, the world's top female golfers are reconvening ahead of the Women's British Open which starts at Woburn on Thursday. There is an issue in Rory McIlroy's psyche he needs to fix before he can produce his best when it is most required, writes BBC golf correspondent Iain Carter. Author David Epstein compares and contrasts how Tiger Woods and Roger Federer became greats of their sports. Royal Portrush demanded an Open winner who could play stunning golf in every sort of weather and produced a spectacle for the ages, says Iain Carter. Ireland's Shane Lowry says he grew up "holing putts to win The Open" after winning his first major at Royal Portrush. Who leads the way in the world rankings and the European Tour Race to Dubai? Who leads the international rankings in women's golf? Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you Analysis and opinion from the BBC's golf correspondent. Get the latest golf headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our newsletter and learn where to find us on online. From hitting a few balls on the range or a quick nine holes, to the full 18 and tournaments - how to get into golf. Evil Genius: Watch out, dead famous people I would have loved Neymar return - Messi F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France What Bayliss is really like - Wood I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad