WMO provides world leadership and expertise in international cooperation in the delivery and use of high-quality, authoritative weather, climate, hydrological and related environmental services by its Members, for the improvement of the well-being of societies of all nations. The WMO Strategic Plan sets the directions and priorities to guide the activities of Members and constituent bodies to enable the improvement of their core information, products and services, to maintain necessary infrastructures and to directly benefit from advancements in science and technology. This Plan emphasizes seven key priorities. These priorities reflect the inputs from all WMO Members and constituent bodies and guided decisions for the WMO Strategic Plan 2016-2019 (link below) to ensure the greatest benefits to Members. These priorities as well as expected results (Annex I) are reflected in the integrated WMO results-based budget and detailed in the WMO Operating Plan, which presents time-bound programme activities and projects. The WMO Operating Plan forms the basis for resource allocation, and defines the risks and performance matrices against which to assess progress to achieve expected results through the WMO Monitoring and Evaluation System. WMO has built its strategic planning on the results-based management (RBM) concept, which also steers programme definition, implementation and management in the Secretariat. This approach enables the Organization to better achieve its objectives and assist Members in realizing their own sustainable plans. The WMO strategic planning process begins with the integration of Members’ input into a high-level planning document that defines the global societal needs, strategies thrusts, strategic priorities and expected results. The World Meteorological Congress is the supreme body of WMO. The Executive Council implements its decisions, while six Regional Associations are responsible for the coordination of meteorological, hydrological and related activities within their respective Regions. The structure of WMO is transitioning from eight to two Technical Commissions, following approval of a Constituent Bodies Governance Reform by the Eighteenth World Meteorological Congress in June 2019. WMO assists in the capacity development of National Meteorological and Hydrological Services by developing and improving human resource as well as technical and institutional capacities and infrastructure, particularly in developing, least developed and small island developing states and territories. Natural hazards are severe and extreme weather and climate events that occur in all parts of the world, although some regions are more vulnerable to certain hazards than others. Natural hazards become disasters when people’s lives and livelihoods are destroyed. WMO Integrated Global Observing System provides a framework for the integration and sharing of observational data from National Meteorological and Hydrological Services (NMHSs) and other sources. WMO Information System (WIS) supports robust, standardized, integrated, accurate and quality assured relevant observations of the Earth System to support all WMO priorities and expected results. The Commission for Aeronautical Meteorology is the driving force behind the Aeronautical Meteorology Programme. It is now clear that these changes are indicators of the effects of human activities elsewhere on Earth and will have profound effects on human society around the world if they continue. The sensitivity of the polar regions is increasingly understood as an issue of global significance. © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)