A social media blackout, "crazy confidence" and fear of "destruction" are things Super League's relegation-threatened sides are dealing with this week. Tony Gigot, Kenny Edwards and Jodie Broughton, who is to join Championship side Halifax, are all to leave the Super League club. Four Super League clubs face a perilously terrifying Friday 13th, as relegation will haunt one of them in the final round. Leeds Rhinos forward James Donaldson signs a new two-year deal with the Super League side. Dave Woods and Jon Wilkin are joined by the Manchester Lions chairman Andy Mazey to hear from London Broncos owner David Hughes and discuss Friday’s relegation dogfight. Super League Challenge Cup Dave Woods and Jon Wilkin are joined by the Manchester Lions chairman Andy Mazey to hear from London Broncos owner David Hughes and discuss Friday’s relegation dogfight. Lee Radford likens his six years in charge of Challenge Cup semi-finalists Hull FC to starring in a Rocky movie. Why Super League is pushing everyone associated with the game to open up about their mental health with the advent of 'Wellbeing Round'. Wayne Bennett will only pick a heritage player for Great Britain's end-of-season tour if they declare their commitment. As a teenager, Josh Taylor was bullied for daring to dream of playing for St Helens - now he wears the shirt with pride. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you Analysis and opinion from the BBC's rugby league correspondent. Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our newsletter and learn where to find us on online. Enjoy the best debate, analysis and interviews with BBC 5 live and World Service plus our rugby commentary listings. How to get into rugby league - a crowd-pleasing, physically demanding game with few stoppages and plenty of pace. Evil Genius: Watch out, dead famous people 'England will plan racism response' F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France Bayliss reflects on time with England I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad