The Office of Inclusion and Engagement (OIE) is part of the UMass Amherst Graduate School’s commitment to fostering diversity and a positive campus climate to promote graduate student success. OIE aims to cultivate an inclusive environment through which graduate students from all backgrounds can thrive and succeed at UMass Amherst. OIE works to promotes student success through recruitment efforts, graduate fellowships, mentoring and community-building programming.  The Research Enhancement and Leadership (REAL) Fellowship is awarded to outstanding graduate students from historically underrepresented groups in the humanities and arts, social sciences, education, nursing and business. The fellowship provides four years of summer support in the form of a $4,000 fellowship each summer (two years for MFA students). The Spaulding-Smith Fellowship is awarded to outstanding doctoral students from historically underrepresented groups in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). The fellowship provides full financial support during the first and final year of graduate school. UMass Amherst has several graduate student organizations dedicated to the promotion and advancement of diversity and inclusion. Working with the Graduate School, these organizations aim to promote a sense of belonging for all students, especially those from groups historically underrepresented in academia, through community-building events, professional development programming, and the cultivation of a positive campus climate. The UMass Amherst Graduate School is deeply committed to promoting access and inclusion in graduate education for all students, especially those from backgrounds historically underrepresented in higher education. We invite you to learn more about our commitment to diversity and the ways we can support you as you consider graduate school. Each year, the Graduate School selects two members of the university community to receive a Commitment to Diversity Award. This award recognizes one graduate student and one faculty member for their outstanding contributions to diversity and inclusion in graduate education at UMass Amherst. UMass Amherst is part of the Center for the Integration of Research, Teaching, and Learning (CIRTL) network, which comprises numerous Research-1 institutions with a shared goal of improving the preparation of STEM graduate students and postdocs for careers that include college and university teaching. The university offers diversity resources, and there are other resources available externally. UMass has several methods through which you can report an incident of bias or receive support. Sep 17, 2019 | 2:30pm - 3:30pm 528 Goodell Building  Are you an international graduate student worried about your English? Join the Office of Inclusion and Engagement every other Tuesday to share your concerns and practice with fellow graduate students in an informal and relaxed atmosphere. We will have coffee and snacks. Join now to ensure your spot! Register here  Sep 19, 2019 | 2:30pm - 4:00pm 538 Goodell  This event will provide tips and tools to effectively search for national fellowship programs designed to support graduate students of color. We’ll also discuss how to craft a compelling personal statement and how to effectively request letters of recommendation, both of which are often required application components. Co-sponsored by the Graduate School Offices of Inclusion and Engagement and Professional Development. Pre-registration required.  Sep 23, 2019 | 1:30pm - 2:30pm 528 Goodell Building  Join the Office of Inclusion and Engagement each month for collaborative (collab) community meetings. Hear from other graduate students in STEM as you navigate your first few years at UMass. Join now to ensure your spot! Limited to 15 students.  Sep 23, 2019 | 5:00pm - 7:00pm 528 Goodell Building  Join the Office of Inclusion and Engagement every other week for the Dissertation Writing collaborative (collab) community meetings. Share strategies for dissertation completion, and enjoy a quiet place to write. Coffee, snacks, accountability and plenty of outlets available! Join now to ensure your spot! Limited to 15 students. 