We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Sold my soul for Rock and Roll @CrashTagsFun Mondays 9:30pm ET...@SkullCrossing Wednesday 12am ET...@TerrorTags Fridays 9am ET You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. Get up and change the channel... #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo Or adjust the rabbit ears! pic.twitter.com/nFW8rJDKG2 Thank you!!! Your welcome Robert!pic.twitter.com/LfqhEkQlPl You're very welcome!!! Nobody can! Does anyone where the channel buttons are on their TV? Do modern TV's even have them? If they do are they even reachable? LOL You can use your phone as a remote... I usually find the tv buttons on the side but got mad when I couldn’t find the buttons on my brother’s TV. I actually might be the only in one in my family who knows how to use the TV buttons. It is literally impossible for me to do anything but turn on and access the settings menu of my TV without a remote. And there were 4 maybe 5 channels to choose from!! If the Aluminum foil antenna were aligned with the Atmosphere!! I was too lazy. I crawled  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.