The Graduate Certificate in Public Health Ethics is aimed at working public health professionals interested in gaining a greater understanding of ethical inquiry in public health. Public health programs, policies, and laws should be critically analyzed and the Graduate Certificate in Public Health Ethics opens up lines of exploration and prepares the student to assess the limits of what we, as a society do to protect and promote the public’s health. Former Surgeon General C. Everett Koop famously proclaimed that anything we do to get people to stop smoking is good; public health ethics questions the extent of that “anything” and asks about the meaning of “the good.” The Graduate Certificate in Public Health Ethics at UMass Amherst encourages public health professionals to ask about what is right and what is good in public health practice and enables students to skillfully engage the contemporary debates of public health ethics. 18 credits 100% online with no residency requirement. Flexible to seamlessly fit into your busy life. Fully accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges (NEASC) and the Council on Education in Public Health (CEPH) The Graduate Certificate in Public Health Ethics is open to: View the free application here. Application checklist and timeline Prospective students need to submit the following documentation: Fully admitted MPH students need only submit the free application. We already have your documentation from the MPH application. Please submit all application materials, by either mail or fax to: Lori Peterson Graduate Certificate in Public Health Ethics 101 Arnold House 715 N. Pleasant St. University of Massachusetts Amherst Amherst Ma 01003 413-545-0501 (Fax) phonline@schoolph.umass.edu  The Graduate Certificate programs office schedules regular information sessions. We have information sessions scheduled, where you can hear more details about each of our certificates.  The session is hosted in Zoom. You can download Zoom, free, or join the meeting here. If you have already submitted an application and you wish to know if it is complete or check on its status, please call the department at 413-545-4530 The graduate certificate in public health ethics requires 18 credits. 3 required courses, 2 electives, and a final project. Required courses: Elective Choices: must choose 2 courses Final Culminating Project: The courses offered for the certificate are offered on a set schedule through the academic year as follows: Spring semesters: Summer Semesters: Fall Semesters: You can download the curriculum here.  Tuition for the program is $622.00 per credit. There is also a $47.00 registration fee per semester. Total cost of attendance based on three semesters is: $11,337.00 Due to the non-degree nature of the certificate program, financial aid may be limited and may not include federal student loans. Should a graduate certificate student subsequently apply and matriculate into the UMass online MPH-PHP degree-granting program, 15 credits will transfer into the degree upon admission. The HPP 696-IS: final project course will not transfer into the MPH degree. All non-degree transfer policies must be met and certificate students must meet all eligibility and admissions requirements for entrance into the full MPH program. Please visit the MPH-PHP program page for more information about admissions, or contact the department: phonline@schoolph.umass.edu Students who have been formally admitted to the online MPH can apply for admission to the Public Health Ethics certificate at any time during their program. Students who choose to do both would be concentrating in Public Health ethics and should contact their advisor to discuss a course of study.  Are you looking for funding opportunities? Please download this comprehensive list of public health scholarships. Online Master of Public Health Degree Programs 715 North Pleasant St., Arnold House Room 101 University of Massachusetts Amherst, MA 01003 phone: (413) 545-4530 | (413) 545-4550 phonline@schoolph.umass.edu ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact