Former England netball coach Tracey Neville reveals she is pregnant three months after announcing she would step down to start a family. Kate Shimmin is set to make her England debut after being named in the squad for a tour to Australia and New Zealand this month. England Netball announce three-match test series in South Africa in November, coach Jess Thirlby's first since taking charge. Loughborough Lightning head coach Sara Bayman questions Superleague's decision to introduce additional round of matches for the 2020 season. England netball star Helen Housby and players from club teams reveal why they love the sport and explain the positive impact it has had on their lives. BBC Get Inspired hears changing room tales from the Bran Nu team in Birmingham and England Netball's chief executive explains the impact of the 2019 Netball World Cup. Kadeen, Sasha and Betty are joined by England's gold medal-winning captain Ama Agbeze to chat about the Roses' unbeaten run at the Netball World Cup and discuss just how far captain Serena Guthrie ran against Jamaica. Trinidad and Tobago's Sam Wallace on one of the most challenging years of her life - on and off the netball court. In her latest column for BBC Sport, England captain Serena Guthrie looks ahead to the Netball World Cup in Liverpool. Follow live coverage of the 2019 Netball World Cup in Liverpool across BBC TV, online and mobile app from 15 July. The Netball World Cup starts in England on Friday, with Scotland playing their opening game against Samoa, but we want to test your knowledge of this fast-growing sport. Shooter Helen Housby has already experienced extreme highs and lows in her England career - but how does she cope with the pressure? Are you a sucker for social media? Are you the queen of the meme? Answer the following questions and we'll predict what netball position you should play. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you England netball players Kadeen and Sasha Corbin have launched NetBallers - a BBC Radio 5 Live podcast. Check out the BBC Sport Live Guide for details of all the forthcoming live sport on the BBC. Improving your fitness, make friends and play with or against all ages and genders - netball has it all. Analysis from the BBC sports editor, plus comment from other correspondents Want to get active but don't know where to start? Take our quiz to find out what sport you should be playing. 'England will plan racism response' F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France Bayliss reflects on time with England I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad