Jump to navigation  The Center provides access to entrepreneurial inspiration, connections, and resources at the flagship campus of UMass Amherst.  Entrepreneurship networking events and competitions provide an excellent opportunity to hone your business model, improve your presentation and pitch skills and generate funding and prize money for your venture. The Innovation Challenge is a series of competitions designed to assist and reward UMass students and young alumni pursuing a novel business idea and developing it into a marketable product. The goal is for interdisciplinary teams to conceptualize a product with regard to its scientific and technological design, identify customers, and create a business plan for the product's commercialization. Learn more Have an idea but don't know where to turn? Idea Jams is a fun, easy first step for students to share their ideas with their peers and recruit the help they need to bring these ideas to life. Find out when the next Idea Jam is and see what else is happening by visiting our event calendar. The Berthiaume Center is the entrepreneurial hub for UMass Amherst with strong connections around the Pioneer Valley. We are about inspiring, connecting and making the resources of the Commonwealth's Flagship Campus available to startups and ventures. Learn more about how to gain insight into what it means to be an entrepreneur. Student Clubs, academic courses, and community resources are available to you here. Learn more An intensive 10-week summer program designed to accelerate investment, licensing and launch of UMass’ most promising new technologies and ventures. Learn more  Entrepreneurship curriculum is heavily supported by bringing in entrepreneurs like you that have a story to offer UMass students. Good or bad, we want to hear your experiences. Contact Us The Berthiaume Center for Entrepreneurship is about teaching, mentoring, connecting, and making the resources of the Commonwealth's largest university available to you. In early 2014 the Berthiaume Center for Entrepreneurship at the Isenberg School of Management was established thanks to the generous financial support of Diana and Doug Berthiaume. "I have seen firsthand how great research, a committed faculty and private partnerships give students a richer learning environment. Diana and I look forward to seeing the impact this new center will have across the university." - Doug Berthiaume  Headquartered in the Isenberg School of Management, the Center will become the central hub of a cross-campus network of scholars, innovators, and entrepreneurs, with a three-fold mission of supporting research, education, and practice, all targeted at facilitating the transformation of ideas into business realities. Maroon Venture Partners Fund I, LP is a for-profit venture fund that invests in early stage companies linked to UMass Amherst. Our investments are typically in the range of $50,000 to $200,000 and are often a venture’s initial outside equity funding. Our broader goal is to foster the growing spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship throughout the UMass Amherst community. Learn more Follow us on social to learn more about the center, entrepreneurship and fellow UMass Amherst entrepreneurs! #hustle  305A Bartlett Hall UMass Amherst Amherst, MA 01003 berthiaume@isenberg.umass.edu Main line: 545-9482 Communications, Marketing and Events: 545-5546 Operations, Space and Student Engagement: 545-9283 You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.