A Politico report said Israel was likely behind surveillance devices found near the White House. A Politico report said Israel was likely behind surveillance devices found near the White House. William Moldt went missing in mysterious circumstances 22 years ago after a night out in Florida. A bus full of journalists collides with the wing of the prime minster's plane, leaving a scrape. The judge was ousted by voters in 2018, and briefly found a new job coaching at a San Jose school. The leaders of 145 companies send a letter to Congress about "an urgent public health crisis". The policy effectively blocks most Central American migrants from seeking asylum in the US. The manufacturer of painkiller OxyContin stands accused of helping fuel a deadly US crisis. A Politico report said Israel was likely behind surveillance devices found near the White House. William Moldt went missing in mysterious circumstances 22 years ago after a night out in Florida. A bus full of journalists collides with the wing of the prime minster's plane, leaving a scrape. The judge was ousted by voters in 2018, and briefly found a new job coaching at a San Jose school. The leaders of 145 companies send a letter to Congress about "an urgent public health crisis". The policy effectively blocks most Central American migrants from seeking asylum in the US. The manufacturer of painkiller OxyContin stands accused of helping fuel a deadly US crisis. William Moldt went missing in mysterious circumstances 22 years ago after a night out in Florida. A bus full of journalists collides with the wing of the prime minster's plane, leaving a scrape. The judge was ousted by voters in 2018, and briefly found a new job coaching at a San Jose school. The policy effectively blocks most Central American migrants from seeking asylum in the US. A bus full of journalists collides with the wing of the prime minster's plane, leaving a scrape. A Politico report said Israel was likely behind surveillance devices found near the White House. The leaders of 145 companies send a letter to Congress about "an urgent public health crisis". William Moldt went missing in mysterious circumstances 22 years ago after a night out in Florida. The judge was ousted by voters in 2018, and briefly found a new job coaching at a San Jose school. Jane Wakefield Technology reporter A panel of experts criticises Google's ambitious plans for a smart city in Toronto. British American Tobacco announced earlier that it is cutting 2,300 jobs and Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell, says that it has been overshadowed President Donald Trump's move to ban flavoured e-cigarettes. “Falling numbers of smokers and increasingly strict rules in developed economies have seen tobacco manufacturers turn their focus to so-called next generation products such as e-cigarettes for future growth. “What’s being announced across the Atlantic could see those plans go up in smoke, particularly given the size of that market. After all, it’s not just the young who opt for flavoured vaping products. “On the flipside, it could reduce the competitive threat to the likes of British American Tobacco and its UK-listed rival Imperial Brands from US upstart Juul which has faced criticism for chasing a youthful audience with its marketing." BAT's shares are up 2% after what Mr Mould said was a "bold first step" for the new chief executive, Jack Bowles. The FTSE 100 has slipped into negative territory - just - ahead of the key announcement from the European Central Bank which is expected to set the tone for the markets. The index is down 2 points at 7,336. Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell points out Donald Trump's decision to delay a planned tariff hike on $250bn (£202.8bn) of Chinese goods as a "gesture of good will" had helped some stocks. It has "raised hopes among investors that relationships between the US and China aren’t as battered as many had feared," he said. Miners such as Anglo American, Glencore BHP Billiton are higher. The index, though, is being pulled "in the other direction by weakness in banks, utility providers and pharmaceutical firms". US President Donald Trump will delay a planned tariff hike on $250bn (£202.8bn) of Chinese goods as a "gesture of good will". In a tweet, Mr Trump said a 5% increase to duties scheduled for 1 October will be postponed for two weeks. He said the delay had been requested by China. It follows a move by Beijing to scrap some US tariffs. Last month, the US said it would increase the tariff rates on all Chinese goods, which included raising a 25% tax on $250bn of Chinese imports to 30%. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News