The University of Massachusetts Amherst PhD in Nursing Program offers a wealth of educational opportunities. The campus is a Carnegie-designated research extensive public university offering more than 70 graduate and 50 doctoral programs in eight schools and colleges. The PhD program builds on previous nursing education and consists of courses in nursing knowledge, theory, research methods, statistics, and cognates; as well as a mentored research experience, a comprehensive examination, and a dissertation. Graduates of the PhD program will have a strong foundation in inquiry and three major areas of expertise: The goal of the PhD Program is to prepare nurse researchers, scholars, and educators who will: To achieve this expertise, students are educated through coursework, seminars, tutorials, a mentored research experience, grant writing, and independent research. Students work with faculty whose research is focused on the following areas: The PhD program requires a minimum of 57 credits for master’s-prepared students and 78 credits for baccalaureate students. The course of study prepares students to synthesize knowledge from nursing and a range of other disciplines in order to address complex healthcare issues and fill leadership roles in nursing research and education. Check back frequently for information about upcoming information sessions. Information sessions are held in Skinner Hall, Room 101. Please notify Cynthia Mendoza if you plan to attend an information session. Cynthia Mendoza, Program Support 026 Skinner Hall Email: cmendoza@nursing.umass.edu   Begin your application for the DNP, PhD, or MS in Nursing programs at the UMass Amherst College of Nursing.   Click here to request more information on the PhD program.  The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master’s degree program in nursing and Doctor of Nursing Practice degree program at the University of Massachusetts Amherst College of Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The baccalaureate degree program is fully approved by the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Nursing. The University of Massachusetts Amherst is accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE; formerly the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges).     