Jump to navigation In late August, first-year students in Isenberg’s On-Campus MBA program set their career compasses at the sixth annual David C. O’Leary MBA Leadership Orientation. “We affectionately call it MBA boot camp,” notes Trista Hevey, Isenberg’s Director of MBA Recruiting and Alumni and Corporate Relations. “The idea is to get our students to frame their experience at Isenberg through a career lens.” To that end, the orientation began with a two-day retreat that offered a thorough introduction to the MBA program and hands-on immersion in leadership, teamwork, and other career-building skills. On the retreat’s third and final day, the action moved to Boston for the program’s culminating event—the Keys to Success panel, chaired by David O’Leary ’81 MBA. Drawing on their own career experiences, the three panelists—all graduates of Isenberg’s MBA program—offered advice and insights that explored career paths, networking, mentorship, and industry trends. “The panelists shared info on how they got to their present positions and what they look for in hiring,” recalls Hevey. Panelist Melanie Pereira ’99 (left), chief financial officer with Eyeview, described her role and career advancement in a firm known for its prowess in visual marketing. Maryanne Bombaugh ’17 (center)—president of the Massachusetts Medical Society and a physician—emphasized the health-care industry’s premium on business skills. And Rachel Krasnow ’13 (right), director of sales at Fenway Sports Management, underscored the importance of relentless drive in her highly competitive industry. At the event, students networked with alumni and industry representatives from the panelists’ firms and other companies, including CVS Health, Merrill Lynch, and Thermo Fisher Scientific. “The orientation gave the students insights into the expansive possibilities that lie ahead for them as Isenberg MBAs,” recalls Hevey. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.