If you want to download a copy of your information from Facebook, you can use the Download Your Information tool. To download a copy of your Facebook data:  After you've made a download request, it will appear as Pending in the Available Files section of the Download Your Information Tool. It may take several days for us to finish preparing your download request Once we've finished preparing your download request, we'll send a notification letting you know it's ready. To download a copy of data you requested:  Note: You can always view your Privacy Shortcuts to learn about the ways you can control your data and privacy on Facebook. If you want to review recent activity on your Facebook account or want to review your Facebook account information, you can use the Access Your Information tool. Yes. When you download a copy of your data on Facebook, you'll have control over which categories of data you want to include in the download, as well as which date range of data you want to include of the data you want to receive. These choices are available when you make the request for your information. Learn more about what's included. When you request a copy of your information on Facebook, you can choose to receive it in an HTML or JSON format: HTML: An easy to view format of your data on Facebook. You'll receive a .ZIP file that, once opened and extracted, will contain an .HTML file named index that you can open like a web page on your web browser. The .ZIP file will contain folders with files, including any images and videos you've requested. JSON: A machine readable format of your data that could allow you to transfer your information more easily when uploading it to another service. You can also choose the quality of your media files (photos, videos) when you request a copy of your information. If you choose a higher quality version of your media, your download will be larger and take up more space. We have a number of security measures in place to help keep your account secure and protect your information on Facebook. Before you can begin downloading a copy of your information, we'll first ask you to enter your password. We may also ask you to complete additional verification steps before allowing your download to begin. To help protect your account, your download request will expire after a few days, and you can always request a new one. Our security systems are always running to help mitigate threats before they reach you and your friends on Facebook, and we offer tools like Security Checkup and two-factor authentication as additional ways to improve the security of your account. Learn more about keeping your account secure. Note: Keep in mind that your data request may contain private information. You should keep it secure and take precautions when storing or sending it, or uploading it to another service. You can always select specific sections when requesting a copy of your information. If you deactivated your account: If you previously had a Facebook account but it's currently deactivated, you can reactivate your account by logging back into Facebook or by using your Facebook account to log in somewhere else. Once you re-activate your account, you'll be able to access your information throughout your account or by using the Download Your Information tool. If you deleted your account or have never signed up for one: If you deleted your Facebook account, you'll no longer be able to access information related to this account. Some information you shared may still appear on other people's Facebook accounts. For example, if you sent someone a message or wrote on their timeline, they may still have their copy of the message or timeline post - similar to an email. If you don't have a Facebook account but believe Facebook may have information about you, you can contact us to request a copy of your information.