In-game spending should be regulated by gambling laws and loot boxes banned for children, they say. In-game spending should be regulated by gambling laws and loot boxes banned for children, they say. Ren Zhengfei offers to share its 5G know-how with a Western firm in return for a one-off fee. A panel of experts criticises Google's ambitious plans for a smart city in Toronto. It misled an inquiry and enabled consumer harm, said watchdog Phone-paid Services Authority. Raids carried out over months targeted groups suspected of spoofing email accounts to steal cash. The social media giant faces growing opposition to its planned cryptocurrency. People with "trypophobia" are complaining about Apple's latest handsets. In-game spending should be regulated by gambling laws and loot boxes banned for children, they say. Ren Zhengfei offers to share its 5G know-how with a Western firm in return for a one-off fee. A panel of experts criticises Google's ambitious plans for a smart city in Toronto. It misled an inquiry and enabled consumer harm, said watchdog Phone-paid Services Authority. Raids carried out over months targeted groups suspected of spoofing email accounts to steal cash. The social media giant faces growing opposition to its planned cryptocurrency. People with "trypophobia" are complaining about Apple's latest handsets. Ren Zhengfei offers to share its 5G know-how with a Western firm in return for a one-off fee. A panel of experts criticises Google's ambitious plans for a smart city in Toronto. It misled an inquiry and enabled consumer harm, said watchdog Phone-paid Services Authority. William Moldt went missing in mysterious circumstances 22 years ago after a night out in Florida. The settlement ends a four-year investigation into Google's tax affairs. Belgium banned loot boxes in video games in 2018. This is how it affected gaming in the country. The social media giant faces growing opposition to its planned cryptocurrency. Ren Zhengfei offers to share its 5G know-how with a Western firm in return for a one-off fee. It misled an inquiry and enabled consumer harm, said watchdog Phone-paid Services Authority. Jane Wakefield Technology reporter A panel of experts criticises Google's ambitious plans for a smart city in Toronto. Raids carried out over months targeted groups suspected of spoofing email accounts to steal cash. Mark Savage BBC music reporter The latest song by Canadian singer Esthero includes a spoken-word protest at Spotify's royalties. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News