An underground hero, his achingly personal songs inspired everyone from Kurt Cobain to Lana Del Rey. An underground hero, his achingly personal songs inspired everyone from Kurt Cobain to Lana Del Rey. The presenter was not hurt after a "spontaneous detour" during filming for the BBC motoring show. The latest song by Canadian singer Esthero includes a spoken-word protest at Spotify's royalties. The actress reveals how a Stella McCartney gown helped her deal with her red carpet fear. Matty Healy's band talk about their Mercury-nominated album and the stress of following it up. Twenty years ago, Matt Haig walked to a cliff edge and wrestled with the question of whether to jump. Sinead Tinker was given months to live in an episode of the soap this week. An underground hero, his achingly personal songs inspired everyone from Kurt Cobain to Lana Del Rey. The presenter was not hurt after a "spontaneous detour" during filming for the BBC motoring show. The latest song by Canadian singer Esthero includes a spoken-word protest at Spotify's royalties. The actress reveals how a Stella McCartney gown helped her deal with her red carpet fear. Matty Healy's band talk about their Mercury-nominated album and the stress of following it up. Twenty years ago, Matt Haig walked to a cliff edge and wrestled with the question of whether to jump. Sinead Tinker was given months to live in an episode of the soap this week. The presenter was not hurt after a "spontaneous detour" during filming for the BBC motoring show. The latest song by Canadian singer Esthero includes a spoken-word protest at Spotify's royalties. The actress reveals how a Stella McCartney gown helped her deal with her red carpet fear. When a character suddenly has to disappear, how do the writers get them out of the storyline? It wasn't just Ed in the grime MC's sights - he's got thoughts about Drake too. Mark Savage BBC music reporter The latest song by Canadian singer Esthero includes a spoken-word protest at Spotify's royalties. The former Citybeat and Q Radio presenter will make his debut on the station this month. Mark Savage BBC music reporter An underground hero, his achingly personal songs inspired everyone from Kurt Cobain to Lana Del Rey. Matt Everitt BBC 6 Music News Matty Healy's band talk about their Mercury-nominated album and the stress of following it up. BBC viewers in the region's Pontop Pike transmission area may need to re-tune their TV equipment today. Some Freeview channels are moving to new airwaves to allow for new mobile broadband services. The changes will take place at the Pontop Pike transmitter in the morning and are expected to be completed in the next 15 minutes. It follows a Government decision to update transmitters region by region between now and 2020. Viewers missing BBC channels after 10:00 should retune their TVs. Sinead Tinker was given months to live in an episode of the soap this week. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News