The European Central Bank cuts a key interest rate and re-starts quantitative easing. The European Central Bank cuts a key interest rate and re-starts quantitative easing. The settlement ends a four-year investigation into Google's tax affairs. A Politico report said Israel was likely behind surveillance devices found near the White House. An amateur astronomer has discovered a comet that could come from outside our Solar System. William Moldt went missing in mysterious circumstances 22 years ago after a night out in Florida. The body of the former Zimbabwean leader is lying in state at the Rufaro football stadium in Harare. A bus full of journalists collides with the wing of the prime minster's plane, leaving a scrape. The European Central Bank cuts a key interest rate and re-starts quantitative easing. The settlement ends a four-year investigation into Google's tax affairs. A Politico report said Israel was likely behind surveillance devices found near the White House. An amateur astronomer has discovered a comet that could come from outside our Solar System. William Moldt went missing in mysterious circumstances 22 years ago after a night out in Florida. The body of the former Zimbabwean leader is lying in state at the Rufaro football stadium in Harare. A bus full of journalists collides with the wing of the prime minster's plane, leaving a scrape. The settlement ends a four-year investigation into Google's tax affairs. A Politico report said Israel was likely behind surveillance devices found near the White House. An amateur astronomer has discovered a comet that could come from outside our Solar System. Anthony Zurcher North America reporter For the first time, the top Democratic hopefuls will debate on one stage. Here's what to look for. The policy effectively blocks most Central American migrants from seeking asylum in the US. Robert Mugabe is now lying in state at a football stadium in Zimbabwe's capital Harare. A bus full of journalists collides with the wing of the prime minster's plane, leaving a scrape. Herman van Holsbeeck is questioned as part of a fraud inquiry over player transfers. A Politico report said Israel was likely behind surveillance devices found near the White House. The leaders of 145 companies send a letter to Congress about "an urgent public health crisis". The settlement ends a four-year investigation into Google's tax affairs. Ishaq Khalid BBC Africa, Abuja A popular Nigerian musician has been charged with illegally releasing songs and setting up a studio in his house. Naziru Ahmad was arrested by police at his home in Kano city on Wednesday evening. He appeared in court on Thursday and was granted bail with a number of conditions. He must surrender his passport, submit three guarantors and deposit the equivalent of $1,400 (£1,100). Ahmad is the latest performer to be detained by the authorities in an apparent crackdown on artists who are seen as critical of the state administration. Critics say the arrest is politically motivated because of the singer's close ties with the Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, who has fallen out with the governor of the state. Ahmad is chief musician in the emir's court. Several other musicians have recently been jailed for allegedly defaming the governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, in their songs. The crackdown is causing concern in northern Nigeria's large entertainment industry which is primarily based in Kano, with artists saying freedom of speech is under threat. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News