Jump to navigation The fundamental objective of any firm is to market its products or services profitably. Students of marketing seek to understand how to sell a product or point-of-view by tapping into society’s best narratives. They’re also practical analyzers who rely on data to tell them what’s trending. Are you interested in learning what makes people tick and uncovering new ways to persuade and delight? Are you on top of market trends, and want to be charged with launching ideas into action? Isenberg Marketing students learn how to match wit, insight and creativity with brand-building strategy and well-executed tactics. As a marketing major, you’ll learn about: Isenberg’s marketing major gives you opportunities to tackle real-world challenges with your academic knowledge so you can apply what you’re learning and have fun doing it. Our faculty challenge students to answer questions about how theory applies to the real world through experiential learning. As part of a recent Fundamentals in Marketing course, Isenberg students worked with the management team of performing artist Clair Reilly-Roe to market her music and grow her fan base. You will leave Isenberg ready to excel in a range of marketing-related careers in product development, market research, advertising services, copywriting and promotional sales. Recent grads have been placed at such companies as: Target - Hill Holiday - EMC - Plexxi - Forrester Research - Millward Brown Digital - Jaguar Land Rover North America - Techtarget Isenberg offers freedom without compromise – a flexible learning environment that delivers a superior education online with the same curriculum as our on-campus program. Our online students are working professionals, parents and community members who live full lives and have demanding, often fluctuating schedules week to week. They want a superior education on their terms. No campus visits are required, as students can complete the entire degree online from anywhere in the world. To meet the graduation requirements for a BBA degree, every Marketing major must complete the following coursework: Academic Advising Our advisors are experts with over ten years of experience guiding students through online education. They are here to assist you with any questions you may have about your studies, from finishing your degree to taking stand-alone classes that complement your career. Professional Organizations There are many marketing-related organizations students can turn to for learning and networking such as AMA, PDMA, WOMMA and Marketing edge. Gain a deeper understanding of advertising, branding, communications, and consumer behavior. The Isenberg MBA with a focus in marketing offers a mix of general business and marketing elective courses to meet your specific educational goals. This MBA provides the managerial skills and business knowledge that are necessary to successfully understand the changing global economy, anticipate consumer needs, translate those needs into products and services, and create campaigns to sell their products for a profit. A total of 45 credits is required to achieve this degree. 2 foundations courses (2 credits) + 11 core MBA courses (34 credits) + 3 electives (9 credits) in Marketing Electives include: Advanced Negotiations for Managers - Consumer Behavior - Marketing for Sustainable Business - Managerial Perspectives of Marketing Strategy - Services Marketing - Social Media Strategy  The marketing focus is offered in our full-time, online and part-time MBA programs. Click below to learn more about these focus areas Full-time MBA with a marketing focus Online & Part-time MBA with a marketing focus Isenberg’s PhD program in marketing is passionate about understanding consumer and corporate behavior. We believe our line of inquiry delivers a deeper knowledge about our psychology, and informs us about how we can evolve as a society. Isenberg’s PhD in marketing is a full-time, residential program designed to generate productive research scholars and excellent teachers. Students receive broad training in research methods and marketing theory. Small class sizes allow students to collaborate one-on-one with faculty as they prepare research for publication. And valuable, real-world teaching opportunities ensure students excel in academic careers. Students generally complete a PhD in marketing within 4-5 years. Students must take 48 hours of coursework, including marketing theory, statistics and research methods. Students complete an independent research project during their first two summers, and must pass a comprehensive exam. Students teach for three years at Isenberg and research, write and defend a dissertation.  Isenberg has a strong focus on research. Faculty are working on a wide variety of projects, investigating such topics as: You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.