From breaking news and entertainment to sports, politics, and everyday interests, when it happens in the world, it happens on Twitter. See all sides of the story. Join the conversation. Watch live streaming events. From Tweet treatments to logos and social icons, these templates and tools will help you use Twitter content and our brand. We love that you love Twitter. We want to make it easy for you to use our brand in the right way. Explore this quick guide to our basic design elements to see how to do it. Looking to download the Twitter logo? Artwork files for print (.EPS), broadcast, and web (.SVG and .PNG) can be downloaded from here. For proper usage, refer to the Logo section in our Brand Guidelines. Looking to represent your presence on Twitter, either alone or alongside other social icons? It’s preferred that our logo is free of a container, but you’ll also find the options to use a circle, square, or square with rounded corners. For more details check out our Brand Guidelines. We use the logo pairing lockups to clearly show an account and a hashtag on Twitter. When pairing them with the Twitter logo, make sure to use our logo once, in blue or white, and we recommend pairing it with the username and hashtag in black. Observe our clear space rules, and scale the text to 100% of the height of the logo. Feel free to use a typeface that’s from your brand’s design system. Check out our Brand Guidelines for more details. When creating a Tweet, always use Helvetica Neue Bold for the display name, the Tweet itself, and timestamp, and Regular for the username to match the Twitter product. Only use our logo in blue or white. For more details check out our Brand Guidelines. To help ensure every Tweet or button is displayed optimally and connected to every user on Twitter, we encourage using embed codes. If you're looking to embed Twitter content, click here. For custom Tweet renderings, follow our display requirements here. By using the Twitter trademarks and resources on this site, you agree to follow the Twitter Trademark Guidelines in our Brand Guidelines - as well as our Terms of Service and all other Twitter rules and policies. If you have any questions, contact us at trademarks@twitter.com. Please submit your request in English (non-English materials must come with translations). © 2019 Twitter, Inc. By using Twitter’s services you agree to our Cookies Use. We use cookies for purposes including analytics, personalisation, and ads.