We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Music. Jokes. Expert Hashtagger. Sports (#Bills #Sabres) #USAF vet. Pug herder. You don't wanna get mixed up with a guy like me. I'm a loner, Dottie. A rebel. You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. Dial a phone number from memory #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo Figure out how to use rabbit ears... #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo Where we land is where we fall Retweeted Where we land is where we fall I mentioned that in another one:https://twitter.com/SethFromThe716/status/1171836956633948162?s=20 … Where we land is where we fall added, Only saw the one the was retweet’ed by Jay. Sorry. Oh, no prob! It all seems like such a distant memory now! Great minds think alike... Indeed! I can still remember the sound of turning the dial to change the channel... The click click click..yes. Or how about channel 3 or 4 with the snowy music videos..? Dude-how about the ‘portable’ 13” black and white tube TVs? That’s what I grew up with in my room...ahhh good times! Or even switching from the UHF channels to the VHF... Damn, I feel old. They don’t even know why we say “dial” a number. Don’t you just tap it? So many of the commenters missed that part of how I worded it! I knew I should've added a pic of a rotary phone! I have my father's, stepmother's, grandmother's, and most of my best friend's phone numbers memorized. try again. we still do that, seth Still can hun. we do that seth Neither can I. If I didn’t use my land line for my grocery store discounts, I wouldn’t know it at all. U tried I can... I can do that, let's see... um... 704-575... erm... give me a minute, I'm sure it'll come to me i sure as hell can I have yet to meet an adult with this skill. Most adults cant do that anymore either  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.