• Updated Heisman Rankings • Auburn HC Trolls Bama • CA Passes College Athlete Profit Bill • USC AD Lynn Swann Steps Down ? Followed his dad’s legacy to Iowa ? Led B1G in sacks as non-starter ? A.J. Epenesa on his way to being a top-five pick ? Followed his dad’s legacy to Iowa ? Led B1G in sacks as non-starter ? A.J. Epenesa on his way to being a top-five pick You can't win the natty in Week 2, but you can lose it You can't win the natty in Week 2, but you can lose it    Board urges California government not to sign Bill 206 Board urges California government not to sign Bill 206 USC reached out to 'at least a half dozen' Power Five ADs, but none were interested in the open job USC reached out to 'at least a half dozen' Power Five ADs, but none were interested in the open job What does Lynn Swann's departure mean for Trojans HC? What does Lynn Swann's departure mean for Trojans HC?    Tua and Jalen leading the way in updated Heisman odds ? Who ya got? (via Caesars Sportsbook | h/t @br_betting) https://t.co/LbAoJ6GQsB    This Texas High School football stadium is INSANE. ? (via @JForsett) https://t.co/OVXEd617Ce Joe Burrow talks about his ?to Texas fans. (via @notthefakeSVP) https://t.co/bmjRhWR8p2    @nfldraftscout and @Connor say LSU’s Joe Burrow is changing scouts' minds about his NFL future Michigan State alumni call on school to take action against student section's 'classless' and 'embarrassing' cheer Michigan State alumni call on school to take action against student section's 'classless' and 'embarrassing' cheer       Here's a compilation of WSU HC's wisdom, humor and love for animals ?? Here's a compilation of WSU HC's wisdom, humor and love for animals ??   The bill would allow athletes to more easily make money off their names The bill would allow athletes to more easily make money off their names Pruitt's 'Titanic' reference is just one of the most bizarre quotes we've seen recently Pruitt's 'Titanic' reference is just one of the most bizarre quotes we've seen recently   Things we have yet to see: A team with a 9-game conference schedule go unbeaten in conference play and make the Playoff. That's why I'd say Oregon and Texas are all but toast in terms of making the field. Cardinal's preseason All-American OT to have season-ending surgery on injury suffered during Week 1 Cardinal's preseason All-American OT to have season-ending surgery on injury suffered during Week 1   #ACGate continues... #ACGate continues...    