We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes The official feed of ESA/Hubble. The Hubble Space Telescope is the space-based observatory which has revolutionised modern astronomy. You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. Using #Hubble data, @UCL astronomers detected water vapour in the atmosphere of K2-18b, making it the only #exoplanet known to have both water & temperatures that could support life. Artist's impression by @ESA /Hubble, M. Kornmesser http://socsi.in/hCRMx pic.twitter.com/nS49K5N8IC Oh great...pic.twitter.com/gGnye0RI2H is there someone on earth thinking on how to cover a distance of 110 light years?! 62 bus to Wolverhampton How many light years away is it? Hi Andrew, Exoplanet K2-18b orbits its host star K2-18, which is 110 light years from Earth in the constellation of Leo. You can learn more about the discovery here:http://socsi.in/s3RnR So are our first radio broadcasts now reaching it and are we detecting any from there? The first radio signals in 1894 just reached it, about 10 years ago( but probably extremly faint) An M class planet! Please edumacate me...what does class M mean? It is a reference to the sci fi show Star Trek. A M Class planet is the designation where theoretically life could flourish due to it being in the habitable zone. It is usually commented on by the characters on the show when they discover a new planet that could support life. Thank you. I think it's a designation that should be adopted for mainstream astronomy. ...and the Apple Watch 5 launch today? “Orbiting this at a distance of ninety-eight million miles is an utterly insignificant little blue-green planet whose ape-descended life forms are so primitive that they still think digital watches are a pretty neat idea.” Douglas Adams Only 110 light years away? I'm packing now. Someone will get their funding now. Otherwise meh News like this makes me discover water in my panties. Even if it’s just microscopic life it would be an amazing discovery finding life outside of our solar system  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.