One of the most influential photographers of the 20th Century has died. One of the most influential photographers of the 20th Century has died. Tokyo's Fuwaku rugby club has three players over the age of 90. The 'zombie fungus' and the climbing dead Mikey Lane is on a quest to become a strongman champion. Ten contenders have been shortlisted to be crowned England's Tree of the Year. A look at the political career of Robert Mugabe, Zimbabwe's former president. A selection of the week's best photos from across the continent. One of the most influential photographers of the 20th Century has died. Tokyo's Fuwaku rugby club has three players over the age of 90. The 'zombie fungus' and the climbing dead Mikey Lane is on a quest to become a strongman champion. Ten contenders have been shortlisted to be crowned England's Tree of the Year. A look at the political career of Robert Mugabe, Zimbabwe's former president. A selection of the week's best photos from across the continent. Tokyo's Fuwaku rugby club has three players over the age of 90. The 'zombie fungus' and the climbing dead Mikey Lane is on a quest to become a strongman champion. Each week, we publish a gallery of readers' pictures on a set theme. This week it is "soak up the vibe". Photographer Kate Green says she witnessed "immeasurable hardship" at a refugee camp in Jordan. Showcasing the best images sent to us from around England One of the most influential photographers of the 20th Century has died. Inverness-based Evija Laivina is collecting unusual beauty tools and gadgets for her Beauty Warriors work. Mikey Lane is on a quest to become a strongman champion. Jonathan Amos Science correspondent Marvel at some of the highly commended images from the Wildlife Photographer of the Year competition. Jessica Sherwood BBC News Is the influence from social media apps like Instagram putting too much pressure on the big day? Adam Bennett says that photographing the river near his home in Essex has allowed him to "relax". Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News