The University of Massachusetts Amherst strives to support veterans, active-duty members of the U.S. Military, and their family members through federal Veteran’s Affairs (VA) Educational Benefit Programs that provide them resources for their academic success. Eligibility criteria and benefits vary. You may contact the VA Office at 888-442-4551 to discuss your eligibility. Post 9/11 GI Bill ®(Chapter 33) Many of the veterans studying at UMass Amherst are using the benefits of the Post 9/11 (Chapter 33). Depending on your length of service this benefit pays anywhere from 40% - 100% of the In-State mandatory tuition and fees directly to the University. You are responsible for any remaining non-mandatory tuition and fees, such as Housing, Meal Plans, Child Care, Mass Pirg and the OIT Residential Services Fee. For non-declared majors: You have two semesters to use your benefit without declaring a major. Once you declare a major or should you change your major, notify the Certification Manager, Lynn Gates at vetbenefits@umass.edu. The Post-9/11 GI Bill ® is for those who served at least 30 consecutive days on active duty after September 10, 2001 UMass Amherst is a participant in the Yellow Ribbon Program. This program is a subset of the Post 9/11 benefit. Students must be 100% eligible for Post 9/11 and be an out-of-state resident. The VA and UMass will split the mandatory cost of your out-of-state mandatory tuition and fees. To participate, complete the Yellow Ribbon Application form and fax it to the number provided on the application. Yellow Ribbon may be transferred along with Post 9/11 benefit to a dependent or spouse. The Post-9/11 GI Bill ® Yellow Ribbon program is for qualified Post-911 applicants. Notify the Certification Manager, Lynn Gates at vetbenefits@umass.edu if you are enrolled in classes and do not want to use your benefits, otherwise you will be certified automatically. Students must be making Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) towards degree or program. SAP is defined as: Classes must apply to degree or certificate program. Excessive electives can't be certified to VA for payment. Audited classes can't be certified to the VA for payment. Failing grades, both punitive and non-punitive, must be reported to the VA. Education benefits can be terminated for the following reasons: A student can repeat a class only if they fail it or their program requires a minimum grade for that specific class that was not met. The National Guard Waiver is available Fall, Spring, Summer and Winter semesters. A student must be an active member of the Massachusetts National Guard in good standing and has not exceeded 130 semester credit hours. It will not cover student health insurance or materials fees. To qualify: ‘‘GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government Web site at https://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill."    Lynn Gates Veteran Benefits Manager 3 Dickinson Hall 155 Hicks Way Amherst, MA 01003 vetbenefits@umass.edu 413-545-5792 tel 413 577-2471 fax