UMass Amherst tuition, fees, room and board rates are established each summer for the following academic year. Learn more about university costs. There are several requirements that you must meet in order to be eligible for financial aid. Learn more about eligibility. You must apply for aid every year. Filing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is the first step. Learn more about applying for aid. Your financial aid package may be comprised of many different types of awards, including grants, scholarships, tuition credits, loans, and work study. Learn more about these different aid types and who qualifies. After you complete your FAFSA, review your Student Aid Report for accuracy and to ensure that UMass Amherst is listed to receive your information electronically. You may need to respond to requests for documentation before your aid can be awarded. Learn more about receiving aid, including when you will be notified about your award and when you can expect your funds to disburse. If you plan to take courses over the summer, you may be eligible to receive financial aid to offset the costs. The financial aid programs available for the summer are Federal Direct loans, credit-based alternative loans, Federal Work Study and Federal Pell Grant (for eligible undergraduate students). Learn more about summer aid. UMass Amherst offers education abroad and exchange programs. These programs are available to all qualified students and most financial aid can be used to help pay the costs. Learn more about study abroad. Whether you are looking for a job on or off campus, a work study or non-work-study position, the undergraduate Student Employment Office (SEO) is the place to start. Visit Student Employment or search the UMass Amherst Student Job Board.  Click here for information related to the estimated costs for undergraduate students. Determine the estimated net price (cost of attendance minus median grant / scholarship aid) that a first-time full-time undergraduate student may pay to attend UMass Amherst. Try the Net Price Calculator.  Financial Aid Services 243 Whitmore Admin. Building 181 Presidents Dr. Amherst, MA 01003 Phone: 413-545-0801 Fax: 413-545-1700 finaid@finaid.umass.edu Staff Listing Monday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Tuesday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Wednesday: 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. Thursday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Saturday: Closed Sunday: Closed CMASS, Wilder Hall Thursdays 2:30-4:30 p.m. International Programs Office, 70 Butterfield Terrace Tuesdays 12:30-4:30 p.m. Library Learning Commons Tuesdays & Wednesdays 5:00-8:00 p.m.   ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact