Jump to navigation The Inclusive Leadership Summit (ILS) is the nexus of our diversity and inclusion efforts. The ILS brings industry partners, alumni, students, faculty, staff, and community leaders together to share best practices, industry trends, and concerns related to diversity and inclusion in business. Undergraduate and graduate students from Isenberg and beyond will benefit from the knowledge presented at the ILS. Students will attend panel presentations, keynote speaker presentations, and workshops administered by professional thought leaders on inclusion, moderated by faculty and staff. The workplace is changing more rapidly than ever. According to recent research by Deloitte, firms face seven new realities as they aim to be successful in the 21st century. Best practices in diversity, equity, and inclusion underscore each of these new realities by increasing the top talent available for firms, encouraging the diverse exchanges needed to reinvent and scale ideas, and cultivating leaders who are nimble, innovative, and can truly unleash the power of their teams. In addition to a rapidly changing workplace environment, the demographics in which firms operate are changing rapidly. In the United States, non-Hispanic whites will become a racial minority by 2043, but as of this year, 7 in 10 Fortune 500 CEOs are white men. Additionally, the world population will continue to shift with major growth coming in Africa and Asia, opening new challenges and opportunities for U.S. firms. Despite its importance, firms struggle with integrating comprehensive diversity and inclusion practices into their business cultures. Students who complete the following requirements will receive a certificate of completion, acknowledging they have meaningfully engaged with issues of diversity and inclusion in business through participation in the Inclusive Leadership Summit. The 2019 Inclusive Leadership Summit will be held in the Isenberg School Management Business Innovation Hub on October 18 & 19. 1 p.m. Case Competition Final Round 4 - 5:30 p.m. Speed Networking (pre-registration required) 6:30 - 9 p.m. Welcome Reception 7:30 a.m. Registration and Breakfast 8:30 a.m. Keynote Speaker 9:40 a.m. Session I 11:00 a.m. Session 2 12:10 p.m. Lunch in the Hub 12:55 p.m. Lunch Panel 2:00 p.m. Session 3 3:20 p.m. Session 4 4:50 p.m. Closing Remarks and Case Study Winner Announced The Inclusive Leadership Summit (ILS) is the nexus of our diversity and inclusion efforts. The ILS brings industry partners, alumni, students, faculty, staff, and community leaders together to share best practices, industry trends, and concerns related to diversity and inclusion in business. This event is presented by Isenberg and EY, and is made possible by the generous donations of our sponsors. Isenberg values the unique experiences, identities, and perspectives that each of our community members bring to the table. We understand that in order to be a true hub of innovation, we must value diversity. We must seek diverse ways of looking at problems, and we must provide an environment where even the most underrepresented of views are heard. The people of our community are our most valuable asset. We cherish our students, faculty and staff, alumni, and local community members. In order to realize the value of their diversity we work tirelessly to cultivate an environment that acknowledges differences, respects diverse perspectives, and seeks the voice of all members of our community. This culture of inclusion that we seek is the active and continuous process of providing a space where everyone feels comfortable bringing their complete and authentic selves to Isenberg while upholding the Isenberg values of respect and dignity. Here in Isenberg, we celebrate diversity and cultivate inclusion in our march towards innovation and the workplace of the future. The Isenberg community is driven and understands that to be successful in today’s business environment, our students need to possess the skills of inclusive leadership. The global marketplace is only becoming more connected, and cultural competency is an essential skill for even the most local of workplaces. Innovation is imperative, and we know from research that innovation thrives in inclusive environments that support the engagement of diverse people and perspectives. Therefore, the goal of this conference is to provide students with the tools, content, and networking opportunities to better understand the importance of diversity, and to help them learn the skills and capabilities of inclusive leadership. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.