Jump to navigation Students choose Isenberg’s online option to complete an undergraduate degree because they want to advance in their professions or make a career change. Isenberg offers freedom without compromise—a flexible learning environment that delivers a superior AACSB-accredited education. Need assistance with this form? Need assistance with this form? Someone will be in touch with you within 48 hours. Finance students at Isenberg learn how corporations make key financial decisions. As finance professionals, they make the big calls on how corporations raise funds, invest in projects, manage working capital, and optimize the trade-off between risk and return. The curriculum combines rigorous training in technical knowledge with real-world case studies. Students build financial expertise by taking a series of courses in corporate finance, financial modeling, investments, bank management, international finance, and advanced corporate finance. Finance graduates apply their knowledge and skill as financial analysts, financial managers, loan officers, bank examiners, financial planners, financial controllers, and other finance-related positions in national and multinational corporations, banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, pension funds, and real estate companies. Finance is a field of study within the Bachelor of Business Administration degree at Isenberg School of Management.  To meet the graduation requirements for a BBA degree, every Finance major must complete the following coursework: You must have a minimum of 27 transferable credits. Download a degree checklist The finance major upper level business electives allow for customization of an academic program to meet your goals, interests and needs. These electives may be from: Browse our course offerings   Our advisors are experts with over ten years of experience guiding students through online education. We offer personalized advice on any aspect of Isenberg, from applying to a program to choosing the right classes. Your success is our top priority, and we welcome the opportunity to talk with you.  We encourage our finance students to get involved with the industry and start networking right away. Global Association of Risk Professionals (GARP) Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards (CFP Board) Chartered Financial Analyst Institute (CFA Institute) Chartered Alternative Investment Analyst Association (CAIA Association)   Finance majors take positions in a broad spectrum of industries, including banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, real estate developers and accounting firms, including: Babson Capital Management, Bank of America, Barclays Capital, BNY Mellon, Columbia Management, Fidelity Investments, John Hancock, JPMorgan Chase, Liberty Mutual, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, Raytheon, State Street, TD Bank, TIAA-CREFF, UBS Wealth Americas, Wellington Management. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.