Susan Sontag, Feminist economics, Waad-al-Kateab Episode 4 Colombia’s Kamikaze Cyclists Scandinavia 12/09/2019 BBC National Short Story Award 2019 Airport scanners, Falling beer sales, Turning around failing high streets 12/09/2019 12/09/2019 Series 2: 50 More Things... 11/09/2019 Episode 2 Ricky Ross and Lorraine Mcintosh of Deacon Blue in Fife PAPYRUS - Prevention of Young Suicide BBC National Short Story Award 2019 Midnight Cowboy Model embryos from stem cells, Paul Steinhardt's book on impossible crystals, Mother Thames 12/09/2019 12/09/2019 The latest national and international news from BBC Radio 4. Corbyn and the Left 12/09/2019 Lucy Prebble, Temple, NSSA - Lynda Clarke, Alan Ayckbourn's Birthdays Past, Birthdays Present Harmless Poisons, Blameless Sins The Battle for Britain Plain sailing?  I Was Batman's Catwoman 12/09/2019 BBC National Short Story Award 2019 The Dusty Humbug Haven 13/09/2019 Episode 4 13/09/2019 13/09/2019 Alternative facts, impartial journalism and democracy. Can news deliver in a digital age? Malcolm Gladwell delves into recent history to understand the world we live in. Best-selling Irish author Marian Keyes in conversation with Tara Flynn. Find full details of how to apply for the 2020 Audio Drama Awards. Kate Stables travels to Casablanca for a collaboration with gnawa player Asmaa Hamzaoui. Brazilian artists and thinkers explore cultural life under a far-right president. Simon Schama with his view of William Blake, the visionary printmaker, poet and painter. Catch up with the newest Radio 4 podcasts. Suzi Ruffell Joanne McNally and Maisie Adam take on Amy at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe. Why we need to get better at working out who’s lying. Fortunately returns after a summer break and Fi and Jane have some stories to swap. Tale about fantasies that make life bearable and what happens when cracks begin to show. What facing death can teach us about living life with GB Para-cyclist Liz Clarke-Saul Uni is the place to go for friendships, essays, booze and near-bankruptcy. How might a young couple, unable to buy their first home today, have fared in 1968? Books to listen to and love. Lemn Sissay reads from his memoir about growing up in care and the power of creativity. Nora Ephron's whipsmart and bittersweet comedy about love on the rocks. Do you Tolstoy on the treadmill? Christie on the commute? Kipling in the kitchen? Kevin Whately reads Benjamin Myers' lyrical coming of age story set in the wake of WWII. Extracts from Rachel Cusk's new collection of clear-sighted and witty essays. David Attenborough takes us back 4 billion years when life on our precious planet began. Meet Queenie. She's a funny, intelligent, loving, expressive, dramatic, catastrophist. Radio 4 in Four’s most popular clips Why more singles are ditching the pub for their running shoes on first dates. From jellyfish and crickets, to lab-grown meat - here's the future of food. Is there a single moment that changed the entire direction of your life? In the 1970s, Dave Chorley and friends decided to make shapes in crops as a prank. The most popular outfit today contains the same amount of plastic as 25 bottles. Pet owners have been stunned to hear a recent news report. Is it true? Edward Stourton reflects on the ethical issues of making unrealistic promises. A selection of the funniest comedy from Radio 4 Paul Sinha improves your general knowledge with fascinating facts and hilarious stories. Michael Palin searches for lost Python sketches and finds them in very unusual places. How much do you know about the Pythons? Gaby Roslin hosts the film quiz with impressions by Alistair McGowan and Ronni Ancona. Graham Norton, Zoe Lyons, Jenny Eclair and Paul Merton join Nicholas Parsons. Phil will solve your problems. Well, he'll try. Sitcom also starring Johnny Vegas. Tez Ilyas talks about people's attitudes towards animals. Edge-of-your-seat stories. Martha vainly hopes that Richard Fallon MP has seen the recent tabloid reports about him. Robert Rigby’s dramatisation of Barry Hines’s 1968 coming-of-age novel set in Yorkshire. When viral marketing caused chaos Robert Glenister stars in Paul Sellar's drama about raising a brand new London skyscraper. Marcel Proust’s allegorical contemplation on time, memory, art and love. Andrew Finnigan stars in Tom Wells' play about the healing power of running Lou Ramsden's comedy drama about wheelchair user Maz. Starring Cherylee Houston A rich selection of documentaries aimed at relentlessly curious minds. The art world is awash with corporate money and brand partnerships. Should we be worried? In a London studio, the ancient craft of globemaking finds a modern spin. The alarming truth about slavery in modern Britain. Sangita Myska investigates the secret story of Britons held as slaves. Dr Nina Burrowes asks whether we should scrap the use of juries in rape trials. Rotherham resident Joanne Keeling looks at the problem of overeating in the town. Mark O'Connell makes the case for ambivalence. More features from Radio 4 Eight tracks, a book and a luxury: what would you take to a desert island? Find out what's on BBC Radio 4, day by day. How BBC Radio manages your personal data.  Sign in to the BBC, or Register