After you complete your FAFSA, review your Student Aid Report for accuracy and to ensure UMass Amherst is listed to receive the information electronically. You may need to respond to requests for documentation before your can be awarded. Graduate Students receive aid decisions beginning mid-July and ongoing. If you are a returning graduate student, Financial Aid Services must check your file for Satisfactory Academic Progress. Once this is confirmed, Financial Aid Services can finalize decisions. If your file is complete and you are in good academic standing, you will receive your award notification by email. You can access your financial aid award through your SPIRE account. Your award is determined in accordance with the laws, regulations and appropriations of the U. S. Congress, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the University of Massachusetts Amherst. It is subject to adjustment or cancellation in the event of changes to these laws, funding or your eligibility. When you receive your email award notification, you need to log into SPIRE to review the financial aid you are eligible to receive for the upcoming academic year. From this point, you need to follow a few important steps. If you receive Federal Direct Student Loans (unsubsidized), and you are a first time borrower, you must complete a Master Promissory Note (MPN) and an Entrance Interview Form before the funds can be credited to your tuition and fee bill. You will only need to complete the MPN for Direct Loans one time - it is valid for ten years and for any subsequent loans you may receive. If you wish to receive a Grad PLUS Loan, you must fill out the Grad PLUS pre-application form and submit it to Financial Aid Services. If your loan is approved, you must complete a Master Promissory Note (MPN). If you borrow another PLUS loan in the future, you will need to fill complete a new Master Promissory Note. Once you have received and reviewed your financial aid award letter, you may appeal the award if you did not receive your maximum eligibility and your Cost of Attendance is higher than what we estimate for you. Any of the following circumstances may result in an increase to your Cost of Attendance and may result in the granting of additional unsubsidized loans: To initiate an appeal, please download and complete the appropriate appeal form which can be found in the Forms section of our website. You will need to include a written explanation and supporting documentation detailing your situation, and will be subject to a verification process. To ensure that your appeal is processed accurately, Financial Aid Services will request special documentation. The U.S. Department of Education requires that students receiving federal financial aid meet the UMass Amherst academic status standards ensuring academic progress toward a degree or certificate program of study. At the end of each semester, including summer, Financial Aid Services checks the SAP for all students regardless of whether or not the student receives aid. To meet the UMass Amherst academic status standards, you must maintain a minimum grade point average of 2.0 and maintain the necessary credit hours to ensure graduation within ten semesters. If you do not maintain these standards you will, at a minimum, be placed on financial aid warning for one semester. Then, if you do not meet the academic status standards after a warning period, you may become ineligible to receive federal, state and/or institutional financial aid. If you have lost, or are in danger of losing financial aid because you have failed to maintain SAP after the warning period, you may enter into an appeal process. To begin the process, download the SAP Policy Information and Appeal Form (available in the forms section) or pick one up at our office. Send the completed Appeal Form to: Financial Aid Services 243 Whitmore Admin. Bldg. 181 Presidents Drive Amherst, MA 01003-9313 Many students receive educational financial aid awards—including scholarships, grants, waivers, or educational loans—through sources other than Financial Aid Services. If you receive non-university aid awards, you must report them. Report your additional resources using the Report Outside Aid button in SPIRE. If you receive aid through another source after receiving your UMass Amherst award, Financial Aid Services may be required to adjust your need-based aid. In most cases the additional aid will be applied toward your remaining need before your loans, work-study, grant, or scholarship aid is reduced. Before your financial aid funds can be disbursed to your student account, you must meet the disbursement criteria specific to the aid program(s) you have accepted. Detailed descriptions of these aid programs are available on SPIRE with your financial aid award and in the publication Guide to Understanding Financial Aid available to download on the Forms section of this site. Unless otherwise stated, your financial aid funds are evenly split between the fall and spring terms. Many grants require full time enrollment (twelve credits for undergraduate students, nine credits for graduate students). However some grants will be adjusted by a pro-rated amount for less than full-time enrollment. You must be enrolled at least half time (six credits) for the William D. Ford Direct Loan or the Perkins Loan to disburse to your account and you must also have a valid promissory note and Entrance Interview Form (if required) on file. Once you have resolved all eligibility issues (including verification and satisfactory academic progress) your financial aid for the upcoming term will be disbursed no earlier than ten days prior to the start of classes. Final adjustments due to changes in your credit load will occur approximately six weeks after the start of the term. Your financial aid will be credited to your UMass Amherst tuition and fees, room and board (if living on campus), and miscellaneous fees. If the amount of financial aid and other credits on your bill exceed tuition, fees, and other charges, you may receive a refund. You may use your refund for off-campus living expenses, indirect expenses, or any other education expenses for the term. You will either receive an excess check or you can arrange for direct deposit into your bank account through Excess Express. You can make these arrangements with the Bursar’s Office. Reminders The funds that you receive from scholarships, benefits, fellowships and grants that, combined, exceed the cost of tuition, fees, books, and required equipment and supplies, are considered taxable income. This includes Federal Pell Grants but not federal loans. For example, any amount that you use to pay for room and board or any stipends for living expenses are taxable. You are responsible for your own record-keeping, so that you can complete your tax forms properly. You may want to keep a receipt file of educational purchases. For more detailed information, consult the IRS, your income tax form instruction booklet, or your personal tax adviser. The Bursar's Office will bill you for tuition, room and board, and all mandatory fees. The fall payment due date is usually the beginning of August and the spring payment due date is usually the beginning of January. You must pay in full by the due date or a late fee will be assessed. You have several options for paying your bill. Visit the Bursar's Office for full details on billing and payments. UMass Amherst also offers students the option to pay your tuition bill in 10 monthly installments for a full year or 5 monthly installments for a single term through the UPay payment plan option. Monthly payments are automatically deducted from your bank account at no cost or by credit card with a 2.7% convenience fee. There is a $65 annual or $45 single term enrollment fee for this payment plan. For information on how to enroll in the UPay payment plan please visit the Bursar's Office or call 413-545-2368. Each term the financial aid office will finalize your enrollment at the end of the add/drop period each term. During summer term this window is shorter. This date is referred to as census date for financial aid. Your financial aid may be adjusted as a result of a change to your enrollment. You will be sent an email if your award is updated. You could owe additional money to the university if your award is reduced. Enrollment Levels (for financial aid purposes) Full-time 12 or more credits for undergraduate, 9 or more for graduate students* 3/4 time 9 to 11 credits (undergraduate only) 1/2 time 6 to 8 credits less than 1/2 time 1 to 5 credits *Graduate degree candidates may be considered full-time regardless of the number of registered credits provided their Graduate Program Director or Department Chair/Head certifies they are working full-time on research.  Financial Aid Services 243 Whitmore Admin. Building 181 Presidents Dr. Amherst, MA 01003 Phone: 413-545-0801 Fax: 413-545-1700 finaid@finaid.umass.edu Staff Listing Monday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Tuesday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Wednesday: 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. Thursday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. Saturday: Closed Sunday: Closed CMASS, Wilder Hall Thursdays 2:30-4:30 p.m. International Programs Office, 70 Butterfield Terrace Tuesdays 12:30-4:30 p.m. Library Learning Commons Tuesdays & Wednesdays 5:00-8:00 p.m.   ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact