We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes It’s our job to #GoThere & tell the most difficult stories. Join us! For more breaking news updates follow @CNNBRK & Download our app ?http://cnn.com/apps You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. Free speech wars miss the point of college | By Michael Roth, president of Wesleyan University, for @CNNOpinion https://cnn.it/2UKq6ck pic.twitter.com/FVinP9VNI6 Good work College is free speech to freshmen Why would anyone waste 200+k on a degree from a university where one is intimidated from speaking one's mind? Another Acadenutjob Colleges miss the point of free speech.. Days the conservative know it all (redundant ?) who didn’t read the article. Gave up 1A absolutism the moment I realized I'd only been defending Nazis, the KKK, and other bigots for ten years. What a waste. Like THOSE guys are going to remember it and protect free speech if they ever got control? Don't be a sucker. WTF... The comment pool on this is almost as big a cesspool as the Clinton Narrative Network itself.  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.