Jump to navigation Our job in marketing & communications is to promote the Isenberg School of Management as a top-class educational brand among our internal and external community. Branding is important because it makes a positive and memorable impression. An organization that doesn’t care about its brand sends an implicit message that it doesn’t care about the people it serves. The Isenberg brand is more than just a logo or visual identity. But the correct and consistent use of our branding across all messages an important first step that signals our values and commitment to our community. Isenberg's students, alumni and faculty have incredible drive. We channel that drive by focusing on more than just business theory and business case studies. We also focus on the business of preparing students mentally and emotionally to succeed. By charging our students with real responsibility, our great expectations fuel great achievement. The voice of Isenberg is straightforward, no-nonsense, intelligent, strong, powerful, and a little ballsy. Our voice has substance re?ective of our programs and professors. We should never be cute or overly clever. Spare, powerful thoughts and language are best. No extra words or “spin.” Rather, our tone should be bold – the tone and voice of a leader. To maintain consistency throughout the school we appreciate the use of approved templates and images. Logo and visual identity guidelines must be followed at all times. If you have any questions please contact us. Guidelines for fonts, logos, images, colors and merchandise usage. Please be sure to reference the brand guidelines before using any of the wordmarks. Approved letterhead, PowerPoint and school plasma slides. Approved images for use on internal and external presentations and posters. All requests for our department must be completed through the use of one of our new forms. UMass has a university-driven identity, which means that UMass branding is always the most prominent. By aligning both brands, we all get stronger. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.