Jump to navigation Ever found relief from a hot summer's day in the shade of a big tree? Trees provide lots of benefits, like shade and cleaning the air, and make our towns and cities nice places to live. Arborists plant, prune, and fertilize trees to keep them healthy. When trees die or become unsafe, arborists remove them. There are lots of career opportunities for arborists because more and more people live in towns and cities. To become a qualified arborist, you need the right education and training; get it from the Stockbridge School's Arboriculture program! Established in 1893, the Stockbridge School's Arboriculture program is the oldest in the country and has educated many leaders in the tree care industry. The Stockbridge School carries on a proud tradition by offering a two-year education designed to prepare you for a career in arboriculture. Classes are based on the latest arboricultural research and include many outdoor labs, to give you the necessary hands-on skills to succeed. If you like working outdoors, improving the environment, using your head and your hands, a career in arboriculture is for you. Americans annually spend $13 billion on tree care, and this amount continues to increase. Homeowners, business owners, and public officials know how important it is to hire qualified arborists to care for trees and shrubs. Arboriculture has many career opportunities: all of our graduates have multiple offers working for tree care companies and as municipal or utility arborists. The Arboriculture program in the Stockbridge School of Agriculture has a great return on investment. Many of our graduates start their own, successful tree care companies. Now is the time to enter this dynamic industry. "The tree care industry today faces a critical shortage of trained professionals," says Peter Gerstenberg of the Tree Care Industry Association. In the Northeast, wages have increased dramatically and are above the national average. If you're interested in a B.S. degree in Arboriculture & Community Forestry Management, which is offered through the Department of Environmental Conservation at UMass, please contact Dr. Brian Kane (413-545-6637) or Kristina Bezanson <kbezanson@umass.edu> (413-545-6626) or visit this page. New England Regional Student Program (NERSP) Students who are residents of Connecticut, Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Island or Vermont are eligible for reduced tuition through the New England Regional Student Program (NERSP). Get an overview of how the program works, or visit the NERSP website for more details. Stockbridge featured in Tree Care Industry Magazine Check out pages 24-26 in this issue of Tree Care Industry Magazine, which highlights the many great aspects of the Stockbridge School's Arboriculture program: "The Business of Educating Commercial Arborists" Fill out our contact form or call one of our advisors at 413-545-2222 to ask your questions, schedule a tour, or get more information! ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact 