We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to an older version of Twitter? Yes It’s our job to #GoThere & tell the most difficult stories. Join us! For more breaking news updates follow @CNNBRK & Download our app ?http://cnn.com/apps You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account you're not interested in anymore. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart – it lets the person who wrote it know that you appreciate them. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about right now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. Land Rover has unveiled a new version of its classic off-roader, the Defender. Ralf Speth, CEO of Jaguar Land Rover, says the vehicle can be used both in cities and for outdoor adventures. https://cnn.it/34yR3Em pic.twitter.com/a93MuaUCyr Jaguar Land Rover is a subsidiary of Indian automotive company TATA motors. Seriously.....tata motors Since 2008 It'll be worth 10% of its current value in 5 years @nigelbingi It doesn't look like a $75k+ vehicle. so uninteresting and destructive to the climate. Land Rover completely missed the mark here, the classic defender market is not looking for a Range Rover wannabe. They ought to have learnt from the G Wagon @chavesson7 yes If it’s only $1,000 a month I’m in Good...very nice...how much does it cost? Looks like a Honda Element Terrible. They did NOT read the room. Want to get one ! But sadly I have not much money ! Did they solve that peevish problem where when a Land Rover gets a little age on it every fucking thing breaks?   Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.