Philip Pham, Nursing Major '20, from North Andover, Massachusetts, was one of two winners in the UMass Amherst 2019 #YASUMass photo contest in which students submitted photos from their summer vacation adventures. DNP specialization area and graduation year: Doctor of Nursing Practice - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner specialization. Graduated May 2019 Where are you located? Austin, Texas What is your current role? Name and Program: Leah Postilnik, Nursing Major '19 Hometown: Marblehead, Massachusetts, a seaside town north of Boston. What is your hometown? Saugus, MA Program and Graduation Year: I am a traditional undergraduate Nursing major graduating May 2019! What inspired you to become a nurse? Name: Amanda McLure Where are you from? Boston, MA When will you complete the MS-Clinical Nurse Leader? May 2019 What inspired you to become a nurse? Name: Tegemea Mwalingo Program: PhD in Nursing Home: Dodoma, the capital city of Tanzania Name: Sharada Paudel, MSN, APRN, FNP-C Location: Bloomfield, Connecticut Graduation: May 2019 DNP Specialization: Family Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Name and hometown: Carl McDonald, Carmel, NY Program and graduation year: Nursing Major, 2020 What inspired you to become a nurse? Name and hometown: My name is Daniella Puche! I grew up in Douglasville, Georgia, but I am so happy that I am here at UMass now! Program and graduation year: I am a traditional undergraduate Nursing Major, and I am expected to graduate in 2022.  The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master’s degree program in nursing and Doctor of Nursing Practice degree program at the University of Massachusetts Amherst College of Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The baccalaureate degree program is fully approved by the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Nursing. The University of Massachusetts Amherst is accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE; formerly the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges).     