Jump to navigation  The Isenberg School is state headquarters for the Massachusetts Small Business Development Center (MSBDC) Network, a federal-state partnership providing one-to-one free, comprehensive and confidential services focusing on business growth and strategies, financing and loan assistance, and strategic analysis.  The MSBDC statewide program has three integrated product lines: Business Advisory Services, Government Contracting and International Trade Assistance. Services are delivered though a statewide network of skilled professionals supported by a vast network of federal, state, educational and private sector partners. In addition, low-cost educational training programs are offered across the state targeted to the needs of small business. The MSBDC Network provides business advisory services and training assistance to over 5,000 individuals. MSBDC business advisory services helps businesses secure small business loans, federal procurement contracts and increases sales as a result of assistance from the Massachusetts Export Center. The MSBDC provides internships for Isenberg School students and has an impact in the classroom. MSBDC business advisors teach a popular Isenberg School course that highlights their experiences with real businesses. Students in the School's senior-year capstone strategy course do case projects involving MSBDC clients. Visit our site for more. Throughout the year, MSBDC offers over 100 training programs such as: View the training calendar The Massachusetts Small Business Development Center (MSBDC) Network provides free, confidential, one-to-one management advising, technical assistance and low-cost educational training programs to prospective and existing small businesses throughout the Commonwealth. There is an MSBDC advisory or satellite office located within 30 minutes of any potential client in the state. The MSBDC provides specialized services in the areas of international trade and government contracting which further augment services. Studies consistently show that Massachusetts citizens receive a strong return on their investment by utilizing the Massachusetts Small Business Development Center Network.  "We feel that Conservation Works (CW) and its partners have benefited greatly from the MSBDC's assistance with budget projections, preparing a business plan, analyzing strengths and weaknesses, advertising, website preparation, and contacts with potential clients. With MSBDC's help we have already established a lengthy list of clients and completed contracts. We look forward to continuing work with MSBDC staff." "For years, our business had done extremely well. We knew, though, that when adversity hit, we had to adapt. We were eager to learn from Keith [Girouard, MSBDC regional director], who helped us to rethink our business model and introduce systems for short- and long-term profitability and growth. Working with him, we now have well-documented systems in place to deal with cash flow, payroll, inventory, purchasing, pricing, and delegation of responsibilities." "The Export Center allows us, a small business, to enjoy some big-company resources. In that way, the Export Center helps us and other small companies to compete globally."  View more testimonials You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.