Liberal Democrat leader Jo Swinson says her party is in genuine discussions with Plaid on a deal. Liberal Democrat leader Jo Swinson says her party is in genuine discussions with Plaid on a deal. A Welsh minister says no amount of preparation can cope with the disruption the paper outlines. Staff say they are "devastated" and have raised more than £500 to help the man's family. Adam Llewellyn was killed on the grounds of Tata Steel's reservoir in Port Talbot. Thomas Gallagher, 76, was found dead in a house on Kidwelly Road, Llanyrafon, Cwmbran on Tuesday. The two universities in Bristol say some students have faced accommodation shortages in the city. A Brexit Party candidate's suggestion of a referendum is scorned by his political rivals. Liberal Democrat leader Jo Swinson says her party is in genuine discussions with Plaid on a deal. A Welsh minister says no amount of preparation can cope with the disruption the paper outlines. Staff say they are "devastated" and have raised more than £500 to help the man's family. Adam Llewellyn was killed on the grounds of Tata Steel's reservoir in Port Talbot. Thomas Gallagher, 76, was found dead in a house on Kidwelly Road, Llanyrafon, Cwmbran on Tuesday. The two universities in Bristol say some students have faced accommodation shortages in the city. A Brexit Party candidate's suggestion of a referendum is scorned by his political rivals. A Welsh minister says no amount of preparation can cope with the disruption the paper outlines. Staff say they are "devastated" and have raised more than £500 to help the man's family. Adam Llewellyn was killed on the grounds of Tata Steel's reservoir in Port Talbot. Felicity Evans Political editor, Wales The Liberal Democrats are in genuine discussions on a deal, Lib Dem leader Jo Swinson reveals. Housing officers believe new properties could "remove the stigma" and tempt people to live there. A Welsh minister says no amount of preparation can cope with the disruption the paper outlines. A Brexit Party candidate's suggestion of a referendum is scorned by his political rivals. Adam Llewellyn was killed on the grounds of Tata Steel's reservoir in Port Talbot. Carl Sargeant died days after being sacked as a minister in the Welsh Government. The £22m Coppergate scheme in Swansea will not be ready to welcome students at the start of term. Plans to restore ecosystems in the countryside will support landowners, its director says. Transport chiefs say new lanes could cut journey times for workers who take the bus by half an hour. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News