We are proud to offer a variety of free services and programs to the UMass Amherst, Five College and Hampshire County communities including: We offer many services but if we don't offer the exact service you need, we can help you find who does. You can search our online database, call us, or come visit the center and one of our trained staff members will assist you in locating the Hampshire County resources you need. Our free services are open to anyone, confidential, and available in English and Spanish. We offer a variety of workshops and trainings on sexual violence prevention, healthy relationships, relationship violence, bystander intervention and related topics. We also host educational events, promote violence prevention related campaigns, and present related displays to throughout the Five Colleges. We provide an important alternative for those seeking counseling services. We serve many people who don't define issues they're dealing with as mental health concerns and seek counseling from a perspective that recognizes the individual and systemic stressors they experience while simultaneously building their own strengths. When appropriate, we make referrals to community resources and therapists in private practice; additionally, people are invited to contact us for referrals. We also provide confidential crisis services for survivors of all gender expressions in the Hampshire County and Five College Community (including Specialized Services for Teens). We support survivors of rape; sexual assault; childhood sexual abuse; stalking; domestic violence; emotional, psychological and verbal abuse. Additionally, we are available to support survivors’ friends, family members, and significant others. Rape Crisis Services are available 24 hours, 7 days/week to provide support, information, crisis intervention, and medical and legal advocacy. Learn more about our Crisis Services. We are also the proud home of the Women of Color Leadership Network. New Africa House, 180 Infirmary Way, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003 Phone: (413) 545-0883 - Email: cwc@umass.edu - 24-Crisis Hotline (Sexual Assault / Rape): (413) 545-0800/Toll Free (888) 337-0800 ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact