UFest Summer NSO Welcome to Winter NSO Winter NSO NSO Staff 2017  Now comes the part when we really get to know each other. We’re the New Students Orientation (NSO) Staff, and it’s our job – and our passion – to ease the transition to UMass Amherst for both you and your family. Our staff of professionals and current students are knowledgeable about and connected to all the resources you’ll need as a new student. We’ll help you with orientation, registration, housing choices, and we’ll answer all of your questions along the way. There are important steps all new students need to take before, during and after orientation, and it is important to start thinking ahead early! If you are admitted for the fall semester, you will be attending a summer NSO session. If you are entering UMass in the spring, sign up for a winter session. We are here to help so feel free to call or email us with any questions! Register for Orientation If you're attending UMass Amherst in Fall 2019 and did not attend orientation in person, make sure you register for our Online Orientation. Log on to the NSO Registration Site, fill in your contact information & tell us about yourself details, then select "Register for Online NSO" on the Choose Session tab. Online orientation is packed with all the same helpful information and resources you would get in person, but can be done at your own pace over the summer. Online orientation participants get one-on-one advising and registration support just as they would in person. #40DaysofUMass We are here to help! newstudent@umass.edu (413) 545-2621  New Students Orientation Knowlton Hall 691 N Pleasant Street OFC Amherst, MA 01003-9399    Admitted for Spring Semester Out of State Students International Students Stockbridge Students Veteran Students Bursar | Campus Departments A-Z | Campus Pulse | Disability Services | eCampus | Financial Aid | Information Technology (IT) International Programs Office | List of Majors | Parent Services | Parking | Residential Academic Programs (RAPs) Residential Life | Student Success | UCard | UMass Dining | University Health Services (UHS) | Veterans Services ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact