Jump to navigation Have a venture idea? Looking to learn more about entrepreneurship at UMass? Startup Bootcamp: Entrepreneurship 101 is for you! These interactive sessions, led by entrepreneurship experts, are designed to provide an introduction to the world of startups and innovation. Questions? Contact Carly Forcade. Have an idea for a startup? Could your research translate to the market? Students, faculty and staff of all academic disciplines who have an interest in starting a new business are encouraged to attend. This 90-minute workshop will cover the opportunities and challenges involved with getting a new venture up and running. Questions? Contact Carly Forcade. Join us for an evening of ecosystem resource sharing, pitching and networking. Students, faculty and staff of all academic disciplines who are interested in innovation and entrepreneurship are encouraged to attend. Register here. Interested in giving a pitch of your area or resource? Want to table or bring promotional materials? Contact Molly O'Mara. Learn how to sell your idea to customers, potential partners and/or investors in a fun and engaging way! Whether you’re practicing for an upcoming competition or looking to refine your public speaking skills, this bootcamp will aid speakers of all levels. Looking to start a venture? Want to add a co-founder or venture support? Startup Bootcamps are interactive workshops designed for students to share and generate ideas, form teams, and learn how to bring a venture to fruition. Startup Bootcamps provide just-in-time support and tangible skills to learn how to run a business. From learning how to pitch to gaining hands on skills from student founders and experts, Startup Bootcamps support all students who want to be entrepreneurs. Learn how to sell your idea to customers, potential partners and/or investors in a fun and engaging way! Whether you’re practicing for an upcoming competition or looking to refine your public speaking skills, this bootcamp will aid speakers of all levels. Get started and test venture ideas in front of a panel of judges. Mentors will be on site to provide feedback. No written business models or plans required. $2,500 in seed money awarded to four teams, the top three and the audience choice winner, as determined by the judges. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.