The Amherst Business Improvement District (Amherst BID) invests its resources to improve downtown Amherst’s vibrancy, sustainability, and economic health. The BID’s downtown events calendar aims to connect visitors and residents to the many events in Amherst that highlight the downtown businesses and enhance your experience in downtown. This downtown directory helps connect you to Amherst’s unique blend of restaurants, shops, and cultural destination that make downtown Amherst a great place to live, work and play. If you’d like more information about the BID, events, or downtown Amherst in general, please contact our office at 413-345-2945 or stop by 35 South Pleasant Street, Amherst MA 01002. Nicole M. Young Supports Amherst Coffee: “Amherst Coffee is such a great place to write. The decor is especially warm and cozy, the large windows help usher in natural light (which is the best for writing) and the staff are so friendly and and welcoming (they know what my favorite drinks are and keep them coming). Amherst Coffee has one of the best lattes in the area and some of the best baristas as I learned about several different at-home brewing methods from them. And given that it’s so close to Amherst College and UMass Amherst, I’ve met some of the most brilliant individuals there and have shared very intimate and engaging conversations with total strangers. Amherst Coffee is a special gem to the Pioneer Valley and I hope that others get to experience it. It also helps that there’s a parking lot conveniently located next door along with other things to do within walking distance.”  Gabriel Kennedy Costa Supports The Toy Box : “My family loves the Toy Box! Liz and her staff are incredibly knowledgeable about the toys they carry. They’re my go-to birthday present counselors. I can describe the child I’m shopping for and within minutes they’ll have three or four great gift suggestions; they’re even helpful when it comes to staying on-budget. And the Toy Box has a ton to choose from—books, art supplies, costumes, and an amazing variety of toys for every age. I also appreciate that my kids can play while I shop; it’s not one of those “look but don’t touch” stores!”  Amherst College President Biddy Martin supports A.J. Hastings: “The oldest store in Amherst’s downtown is the place to find all your Mammoth gear, as well as all the pens, paper, periodicals, and protractors, thumb drives, hiking maps, and greeting cards you could ever need. Second-generation owner Don Hastings was a member Amherst’s class of 1940. Today, Sharon Povinelli and Mary Broule keep the Hastings tradition of long hours, friendliness, and indispensabiity alive.” Revered Vicki Kemper of First Church Amherst Supports The Black Sheep Deli: “The Black Sheep Deli is the type of place I would go out of the way to visit. So lucky to have this close by. The food and service is wonderful and the business cares about people and politics. My favorite sandwich is the Holy Guacamole Wrap and I recently had a biscuit that reminded me exactly of my Grandmother’s recipe.”  Writer, poet, educator Ocean Vuong Supports Unnameable Books : “The opening of Unnamable Books marks a key revival in reader culture and continues the grassroots bookstore renaissance sprouting across the country. Eponymous of its original store in Brooklyn, Unnamable brings its widely esoteric and deeply literary selection to the Valley–and my students have been adoring it. In a sense, it’s a writer’s book store. Inside, it has the feel of a tiny library at the outskirts of an isolated and forgotten municipality in the 80’s–but curated by the ghosts of your literary heroes. Which is perfect.”  Dr. Carlie Tartakov Supports Head Games Beauty Supply : “I love Head Games because of Erica’s amazing product knowledge and how her business serves men and women of all ages and for every hair type and style. I love the tips and advice and care from Erica and her friendly and knowledgeable staff that keep us from having bad hair days! Erica is an artist – she is creative and determined to keep you looking and feeling marvelous. Head Games Beauty supply is a gift to The Valley!”  Author Charles K. Mann photographed with Architect Ray Mann (and Nat and Shannon) Supports Amherst Books: ” I love coming to Amherst Books because I like to see what books are coming out on subjects I’m researching. You just can’t browse the tables online. In addition, Nat has great taste. If you ask him what he thinks of a book, he’ll tell you. Or he’ll make a recommendation based on what people in town are liking. The store is an incredible resource, and I’m grateful it’s here.”  Amherst Business Improvement District 1 day ago We honor the First Responders whose bravery and selflessness was specially tested on this day 18 years ago. #september11 #firstresponders911 #amherstmafirstresponders #amherstmafireandrescue #amherstmaAPD #neverforget ... Share on FacebookShare on TwitterShare on Linked InShare by Email  Comment on Facebook Amherst Business Improvement District shared a photo. 6 days ago Amherst Poetry Festival is coming! This great Poetry Slam is the kickoff event AmherstWorks, following the Celebrate Amherst Block Party on September 19th. #amherstpoetryfestival #poetry #amherstmaWho will be crowned Amherst Poetry Festival's Slam Champion? Find out on at 9:00 p.m. on Thursday, September 19, at the Slam Poetry Contest at Amherst Works! Featuring the slam teams of the NorthBEAST, a regional organization that brings poets together for slam contests around New England, this Festival event will make for a lively evening as our four teams compete for the crown. Come out and cheer for your local team! ... Share on FacebookShare on TwitterShare on Linked InShare by Email  Comment on Facebook The most critical issue facing downtown development Amherst’s unique magnetism Locals for locals