Jump to navigation The McCormack Department of Sport Management is one of the few sport management programs housed within a business school. As one of the oldest sport management programs in the world, McCormack’s network of more than 5,000 alumni features leaders within every segment of the industry. The department has one of the top undergraduate programs in the country, and its graduate sport management program is currently ranked No. 1 in the world by SportBusiness. The bachelor program is uniquely housed within the nationally ranked Isenberg School of Management. The combination of business, leadership, and sport-specific education sets our students up for long, successful careers within the diverse and growing sport industry. The Bachelor of Science in Sport Management undergraduate program is taught by a diverse full-time faculty devoted exclusively to sport management; Isenberg’s management foundation helps create well-rounded graduates, supported by McCormack’s unrivaled alumni base. McCormack graduates are management majors, sport industry experts, and innovative thinkers. Our rigorous 4 year program develops future leaders in sport management, across a range of diverse industry segments. McCormack graduates go on to careers across a broad spectrum of industries, including professional sports, amateur sports, marketing agencies and event management companies. Recent McCormack graduates have been hired by: Major League Baseball – Major League Soccer – Under Armour – Fox Sports – ESPN – IMG Agencies – Octagon Marketing – Disney Sports – Boston Red Sox – NY Mets – Boston College – Duke University & more. Gain your competitive edge from the world’s #1-ranked sport master’s program while tapping into our unprecedented alumni network. The Master of Science in Sport Management requires 35 credits, and students generally complete the program in 1 year. Through course work and a wealth of experiential learning-based projects, students will gain an in-depth understanding of business in the sport industry across a multitude of topic areas.  Our cutting-edge curriculum, taught by one of the largest full-time faculties in sport management, features a unique blend of sport-specific theory and practice – all designed to prepare the future leaders of the sport industry.  "I chose UMass to assist with my professional pivot because of the exceptional faculty, the strength of the alumni network, and the high esteem that the program holds in the sport management sector. The cherry on top is the engaging community that fosters growth through collaboration in a non-competitive space." - Kellen Williams, '15 Earn a dual degree from the #1 ranked sport master’s program in the world, powered by a business-centric curriculum and designed to prepare students for positions of leadership within the sport industry. Our on campus dual-degree program marries theory, practice, and industry engagement to train the next generation of sport industry leaders. Dynamic three-month long consulting projects with sports companies round out this 72 credit program. Blending traditional MBA coursework with sport-specific theory and practice, students leverage a range of unique program elements. “I chose the Sport Management program because of its unmatched support and alumni connections. I have been blown away by how deeply professors and McCormack alumni care for students and how willing they are to help. Academically, I have been challenged to think beyond the classroom and apply knowledge to real client projects. To top it all off, working with classmates from a variety of backgrounds and nationalities has afforded me a much broader perspective on the sport industry.” - Rachel Lee, '17 MBA/MS Candidate Isenberg’s PhD in sport management is a full-time, residential program that prepares students for careers in academia. Isenberg has a strong focus on research. Faculty members are working on a wide variety of research projects, investigating such topics as: Students must take 48 credits of coursework. Students must pass both a qualifying and comprehensive examination, and must complete three years of teaching at Isenberg. During the final years, students research, write and defend a dissertation. YEAR 1: Coursework, including statistics, research methods and sports management core courses; Qualifying exam YEAR 2: Coursework, including statistics, major field electives and minor field courses; Comprehensive exam YEAR 3: Development of dissertation proposal; Teaching YEAR 4-5: Dissertation research; Teaching You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.