Here to help Learn something new, explore the world around you, get things done, and be in the moment for the moments that matter most, with a little help from our products. Here to help Get answers faster than you can type With Google Search’s autocomplete, you don’t have to spell everything out in order to find what you need. Autocomplete’s search predictions are based on relevant and trending searches, helping you spend less time typing. Get answers faster than you can type Find the right words Google Translate now supports over 100 languages. Type in any word, phrase — or even longer text — and get an instant translation. The app can even automatically detect which language you are entering to translate. Find the right words Avoid the lines Don’t have time to wait? Search for where you want to go in Google Maps, and look for the “Popular times” graph to see how busy your destination is at any given time. Avoid the lines Discover the best spots Looking for something to do in your area? Google Maps automatically shows you a menu of restaurants, events, and more things to do. For curated lists, city guides, and more tools to help you find the place you’re looking for, just open the “Explore” menu. Discover the best spots Never lose a memory With Google Photos, all your photos are automatically backed up and organized. You have unlimited, high-quality free storage, and can access them from any phone, tablet, or computer. Never lose a memory Find your phone, from anywhere Search “find my phone” on Chrome, and a map of its location will appear. You can also ring the phone, in case it’s hiding right under your nose. As long as you’ve signed into your Google Account on your phone, this capability is automatically turned on. Find your phone, from anywhere Stay in the moment Turn on Do Not Disturb to disconnect from your devices and focus on what matters. You can pick what’s blocked and allowed, from muting sound and stopping vibration to blocking all visual disturbances. Stay in the moment Find your car every time Errands. Drop-offs. Pickups. Whatever’s on your “to do” list, use the Google Assistant to help remember what’s most important — like where you parked your car at that mall with the neverending parking lot. Find your car every time Convert cups to ounces without doing math Type a conversion you need in Google Search, such as “14 celsius to fahrenheit” or “how many liters in a gallon” and Search’s built-in unit converter will handle the calculations. Convert cups to ounces without doing math Talk and text, hands?free Need to make a quick call? Just ask the Google Assistant. Say, “Hey Google, call Mom” and it’ll start dialing on your phone. You can even have your Assistant send texts on your phone by saying, “Hey Google, text Mom I’ll be 10 minutes late. Talk and text, hands?free Create your shopping list just by talking Add items to your shopping list right when you think of them. Just say “Add tomatoes to my shopping list” and items will be saved and synced across your devices. When it’s time to shop, access your list through Google Keep. Create your shopping list just by talking Undo sending that email Don’t fret over embarrassing typos or unintentional reply-alls. In your Gmail settings, just implement a 5-30 second cancellation period on your sent emails. Every time you send one off, you’ll receive a prompt to “Undo.” Undo sending that email Get around easier View routes by wheelchair in select major cities with Google Maps. Just input your destination into Maps, tap “Directions” then select the public transportation icon. Then tap “Options” and under the Routes section, you’ll find “wheelchair accessible” as a new route type. Get around easier Get the forecast Type “weather” and any location into Google Search and you’ll get a detailed forecast for your day and the upcoming week, including any weather advisories in your area. Get the forecast Perfect your photos in one tap Google Photos uses machine learning to suggest the perfect tweak to make a photo shine. You’ll see a range of actions as you browse your photos, such as the option to brighten, share, rotate, or archive a picture. With one tap, you can complete the action. Perfect your photos in one tap Breeze through online forms With Autofill, you can enter information like your name, address, and credit card number in one click. Once you’ve saved the information to Chrome once, you’ll never have to re-enter it again across synced devices. Breeze through online forms Get real-time answers to questions about the world around you Learn more Get real-time answers to questions about the world around you Learn more One way to be mindful of your video-watching time Learn more One way to be mindful of your video-watching time Learn more Turn your house into a smart home Learn more Turn your house into a smart home Learn more A few tools to help you spend less time on your phone Learn more A few tools to help you spend less time on your phone Learn more Five ways the new Gmail can help you get more done Learn more Give and get the photos you care about Learn more Give and get the photos you care about Learn more Get on the same page with real-time editing Learn more Get on the same page with real-time editing Learn more Drive better results with the latest Google Ads innovations Learn more Android Auto Android OS Calendar Cardboard Chrome Chrome Web Store Chromebook Chromecast Connected Home Contacts Daydream View Docs Drawings Drive Earth Finance Forms Gboard Gmail Google Alerts Google Cast Google Classroom Google Cloud Print Google Duo Google Expeditions Google Express Google Fi Google Fit Google Flights Google Fonts Google Groups Google Input Tools Google One Google Pay Google Photos Google Play Google Play Books Google Play Games Google Play Movies & TV Google Play Music Google Store Google Street View Google Wifi Hangouts Hangouts Chat Keep Maps Messages News Pixel 3 Play Protect Scholar Search Sheets Sites Slides Tilt Brush Translate Voice Waze Wear OS by Google YouTube YouTube Kids YouTube Music YouTube TV AdMob AdSense Analytics Android Assistant Blogger Chrome Data Studio DoubleClick by Google G Suite Google Ads Google Cloud Platform Google Digital Garage Google Domains Google Enterprise Search Google Manufacturer Center Google Maps Platform Google Merchant Center Google My Business Google Shopping Campaigns Google Surveys Google Tag Manager Google Trends Google Web Designer Google+ Brands Optimize Search Console Shopping Actions Waze Local App Testing Cloud Computing Devices Engagement Game Services Growth Maps + Location Messaging + Notifications Monetization Monitoring Payments Sign in + Identity Storage + Sync Visit developer.google.com/products for the complete list of our latest developer products and tools including documentation, examples, community forums and more.