Jump to navigation If you are an alum of The Stockbridge School you may send us your contact information. Stockbridge alumni are the backbone of the green industries in Massachusetts and around the world. Our alumni have traditionally been the most active and supportive of any school or college at the University of Massachusetts. This page is your opportunity to stay connected with your Alma Mater, your classmates and friends - advertise your business or the place of employment (free) simply by registering as an alum. As a registered alumnus/ae you may add or delete any info you wish whenever you want to. The only information published will be your name, graduation year, email or Facebook address and the link to your Business website. Personal information such as addresses will only be used for mailing by the Stockbridge School. All other info is for internal use only and will help us in keeping your file at the Stockbride School up to date. Through their generous contributions of finances, time and in-kind gifts, our alumni have enabled the funding of several endowments, the sponsoring of national competition teams, field trips to regional and national professional meetings, alumni scholarships, teaching facilities, Stockbridge School Commencement ceremonies, and more. Like any flourishing grooup, the Stockbridge School Alums are moving in the right direction. For Stockbridge, events check out the Stockbridge Calendar. Our newest alums gave a class gift to the Alumni Scholarship Fund as they begin an exciting venture as Stockbridge Alums and leaders in the Green Industry. Check them out on the Stockbridge School of Agriculture's Facebook page. If you are planning on changing jobs, continuing your education and need a transcript complete the TRANSCRIPT REQUEST FORM.  History Faculty & Staff The Advisory Board Fill out our contact form or call one of our advisors at 413-545-2222 to ask your questions, schedule a tour, or get more information! ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact 