Jump to navigation Hospitality & Tourism Management is a multi-disciplinary field of study that prepares students with the expertise, commitment, and skills for management, marketing, and operations positions in the expanding industry of hospitality. The Hospitality & Tourism Management industry is thriving, and so is our HTM program, which is considered one of the best in the world. Our mission: Teach, advance, and support the practice and management of the hospitality and tourism industries, and to address the needs of its multiple constituencies. Advance industry knowledge through original and adaptive research and scholarship. Serve the industry through programs on and off campus designed to advance and renew the education of those practicing in the field. Support the University of Massachusetts by participating in its governing bodies and serving the state public at large.  Our Program Learning Objectives (PLOs): PLO 1: Discipline and Industry Knowledge: Identify key theories and concepts of management, accounting, finance, marketing, and information technology and apply them in the hospitality and tourism context. Identify the key sub sectors of the hospitality and tourism industry and the unique operating-environment characteristics of each sub sector. PLO 2: Business Communication: Compose well-written business documents. Report and communicate effective business presentations by use of appropriate technology. PLO 3: Leadership and Teamwork: Identify and apply leadership theories within the hospitality and tourism context. Solve business problems collectively. PLO 4: Critical Thinking: Apply critical thinking to business problems and their causes. Debate and generate innovative and alternative solutions. Justify reasoned conclusions within the hospitality and tourism context. PLO 5: Legal Knowledge and Ethical Reasoning: Apply knowledge of law and ethical reasoning in making decisions within the context of hospitality and tourism.  Beyond the classroom, our HTM students participate in a number of professional clubs and events, including HTM Career Day. Our students also enjoy additional learning opportunities with departmental speakers, academics, and practitioners in a variety of forums. And our alumni regularly return to Isenberg to share their experiences and successes. By providing a strong foundation of management and business knowledge, our students graduate highly qualified, well-rounded, and ready to step into exciting careers in this dynamic and globally expanding industry. Hospitality & Tourism Management (HTM) majors turn their passion for food, travel and people into management careers as experts and entrepreneurs in the hospitality industry. For on-campus students, in addition to the rigorous and comprehensive classroom work, the program leverages a variety of experiential learning opportunities, including externships and internships with industry leaders, executive mentoring programs, and the Marriott Meals program. For students with at least 27 transferable credits, Isenberg offers an online degree completion program. This flexible learning environment is ideal for the non-traditional student, including working professionals, parents and community members, and offers the same rigor and quality as the on-campus curriculum, culminating in a Bachelor of Science degree in Hospitality & Tourism Management. No campus visits are required; students can complete the entire degree online from anywhere in the world. Graduates of the Isenberg HTM program have been hired by restaurants, hotels, casinos, clubs, contract food services, and destination marketing organizations across the globe. HTM alumni include: An exciting new career is at your fingertips. Earn a certificate online to make a career leap or to acquire new skills that will give you a boost in the office. Meeting & Event Management Certificate Do you like to bring people together? Are you organized and motivated? Our online Meeting & Event Management certificate teaches you how to plan and run events. Earn your certificate in five online courses. Students generally complete their coursework in one year. Prerequisite courses are waived for students earning certificates. All of the certificate courses must be taken through UMass Amherst, so waivers and transfers are not accepted. Successful applicants will have completed 24 credits of college level coursework or have two years relevant work experience. Classes are taught by the same accomplished faculty as our full-time programs. Certificate courses can be applied toward a bachelor’s degree. An exciting new career is at your fingertips. Earn a certificate online to make a career leap or to acquire new skills that will give you a boost in the office. Isenberg’s PhD in hospitality and tourism management is a full-time, residential program that prepares candidates for academic careers in hospitality and tourism. Isenberg has a strong focus on research. The program develops strong research skills that enable graduates to conduct and publish scholarly research with competence and confidence. Faculty are working in a wide variety of research domains, investigating such areas as:  Students generally complete a PhD in HTM within 4-5 years. Our doctoral students must pass a qualifying and comprehensive exam. Students also teach at Isenberg. During the final years, students are responsible for creating and defending a dissertation. YEAR 1: Coursework, including statistics, research methods, and theory courses, and research electives; Qualifying exam YEAR 2: Coursework, including marketing and management courses, research electives and minor area courses; Comprehensive exam YEAR 3: Additional coursework as needed; Development of dissertation proposal; Teaching YEAR 4-5: Dissertation research Isenberg faculty includes award-winning research scholars, industry experts and outstanding professors. We recruit our faculty members from all over the world, and their caliber elevates an Isenberg education. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.