WMO congratulates the three scientists leading the research teams that will share the US$ 5 million grant from the United Arab Emirates Research Programme for Rain Enhancement Science. Masataka Murakami, Visiting Professor from the Institute for Space-Earth Environmental Research, Nagoya University (Japan), for his work on pre- cipitation enhancement in arid and semi-arid regions. Professor Murakami’s project focuses on innovative algorithms and sensors dedicated to identifying the clouds most   Article published in Volume 51, No. 2, April 2002 For the first few months of its existence, the World Meteorological Organization utilized as its Headquarters the offices of its predecessor, the International Meteorological Organization, which were in Lausanne, Switzerland. On 10 December 1951, the Secretariat was moved to its temporary Headquarters at Campagne Rigot, Avenue de la Paix, Geneva, Switzerland. This building,...   There are no obituaries in the April 2008 Bulletin.  The World Economic Forum’s Global Risks Report 2019 plots the most probable and highest global risks challenging humankind – all relate to weather, climate, water and environment, the core of WMO activities. Societies, communities, citizens and international development partners are looking to WMO to provide the best available data, knowledge and services to allay such risks. They look to WMO to provide the foundation for climate-resilient, sustainable development. Yet, National... WMO appointed Pavel Kabat as its first chief scientist and research director in autumn 2018. He will guide the overall strategic direction of the WMO science, and its underlying research activities, including the World Climate Research Programme, the World Weather Research Programme and the Global Atmosphere Watch, which monitors greenhouse gas concentrations, air quality and the ozone layer. Professor Kabat will maintain close interactions with WMO Members to ensure the... Historically, there has been a clear divide between weather and climate prediction, although both use similar numerical tools. Weather prediction, which is essentially an atmospheric initial condition problem, refers to the prediction of daily weather patterns from a few hours up to about two weeks. Climate forecasting, which is a boundary condition problem, refers to the prediction of climate fluctuations averaged over a season or beyond. This time-scale separation between... The boom in communication technology has opened many opportunities for private meteorological service companies in China. China Meteorological Administration’s (CMA) has, therefore, placed high priority on establishing collaborative relationships with these in order to restructure and streamline meteorological services. In 2015, CMA started to explored partnerships between the National Service and private meteorological services to boost Chinese expertise and knowledge in developing and disseminating meteorological services. In May, CMA-affiliated Huafeng... Since 1990 and the publication of the First Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), tens of thousands of scientists have come together to deliver the latest scientific evidence that the Earth’s climate is changing and that the majority of the observed change is due to human activity. Never before have so many scientists been willing to coordinate and dedicate their resources to address a global issue... We can’t change the weather, but we often wish we could. We know that high-impact weather events cause the vast majority of global disasters, affecting millions of people and leading to billions of dollars in property damage every year. In 2018 the number of people killed by natural disasters worldwide – around 10 000 – was far below the twenty-first century yearly average of about 70 000, according to insurance broker... The Earth’s climate has never been constant; a wide range of variations and changes in space and time, often leading to extremes, is its fundamental characteristic. However, there is conclusive evidence of anthropogenic warming over the past century occurring at an unprecedented pace. Its implication – in the increased frequency and intensity of extreme events– has elevated concerns about the exposure of vulnerable communities to climate risk. The resilience of... © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)