Britain's Maisie Summers-Newton and Louise Fiddes win their first world titles at the Para-swimming World Championships in London. Arsenal and Netherlands striker Vivianne Miedema on taking inspiration from Robin van Persie, chatting football with Virgil van Dijk and enjoying success with the national team. Three-time Olympic swimming champion Katinka Hosszu explains how she earned her 'Iron Lady' nickname. Multiple Paralympic swimming champion Jessica Long says changes to the sport's classification system have affected her motivation. Check out the BBC Sport Live Guide for details of all the forthcoming live sport on the BBC. Great Britain pip USA to gold in a thrilling finish in the men's 4x100m medley relay at the 2019 World Championships. BBC Sport meets American Caeleb Dressel, a swimmer tipped to dominate the sport for years to come, and who has been compared to Olympic legend Michael Phelps. Marathon swimmer Beth French attempted a physical challenge that no-one had ever done - all while living with ME. Freezing temperatures, the prospect of hypothermia and no wet suits allowed... We look at the rules, training and appeal of ice swimming. How to get into swimming - find your local pool and get ready for a dip with one of Britain's most popular sports Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you A unique insight into Olympic champion Adam Peaty as he sets out to be the first swimmer to go under 57 seconds in the 100m breaststroke. How to get into swimming - find your local pool and get ready for a dip with one of Britain's most popular sports. Catch up with the latest diving news on our diving index. 'England will plan racism response' F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France Bayliss reflects on time with England I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad