Jump to navigation Notes Instructions This tool lists Isenberg course choices by semester. It is designed to help you make smart decisions about what classes to take and when to take them so you meet all of your program requirements. This tool is for planning purposes only--and if a class is visible here, please check in SPIRE or with CPE for most up-to-date class information and availability.  Non-Degree/Certificate Students How to Enroll     The “Try a Class” or A la Carte option is ideal for people who want to: Get to Know Us Decide if Isenberg Online is the right fit for you – and earn credits and expertise at the same time. Jump Ahead Earn credits that will help you get ahead in your program, catch up or graduate early. Add Skills Taking stand-alone classes can advance your knowledge and expertise, and increase your value to future employers. Transfer Credits to Your School Students from other institutions can take advantage of Isenberg Online’s outstanding offerings and transfer credits from UMass. See What Courses We're Offering Take a look at the classes offered this semester and sign up.  This tool lists Isenberg course choices by semester. It is designed to help you make smart decisions about what classes to take and when to take them so you meet all of your program requirements. This tool is for planning purposes only--and if a class is visible here, please check in SPIRE or with CPE for most up-to-date class information and availability.  Non-Degree/Certificate Students How to Enroll     The “Try a Class” or A la Carte option is ideal for people who want to: Get to Know Us Decide if Isenberg Online is the right fit for you – and earn credits and expertise at the same time. Jump Ahead Earn credits that will help you get ahead in your program, catch up or graduate early. Add Skills Taking stand-alone classes can advance your knowledge and expertise, and increase your value to future employers. Transfer Credits to Your School Students from other institutions can take advantage of Isenberg Online’s outstanding offerings and transfer credits from UMass. See What Courses We're Offering Take a look at the classes offered this semester and sign up.  This tool lists Isenberg course choices by semester. It is designed to help you make smart decisions about what classes to take and when to take them so you meet all of your program requirements. This tool is for planning purposes only--and if a class is visible here, please check in SPIRE or with CPE for most up-to-date class information and availability.  Non-Degree/Certificate Students How to Enroll     The “Try a Class” or A la Carte option is ideal for people who want to: Get to Know Us Decide if Isenberg Online is the right fit for you – and earn credits and expertise at the same time. Jump Ahead Earn credits that will help you get ahead in your program, catch up or graduate early. Add Skills Taking stand-alone classes can advance your knowledge and expertise, and increase your value to future employers. Transfer Credits to Your School Students from other institutions can take advantage of Isenberg Online’s outstanding offerings and transfer credits from UMass. See What Courses We're Offering Take a look at the classes offered this semester and sign up.  This tool lists Isenberg course choices by semester. It is designed to help you make smart decisions about what classes to take and when to take them so you meet all of your program requirements. This tool is for planning purposes only--and if a class is visible here, please check in SPIRE or with CPE for most up-to-date class information and availability.  Non-Degree/Certificate Students How to Enroll     The “Try a Class” or A la Carte option is ideal for people who want to: Get to Know Us Decide if Isenberg Online is the right fit for you – and earn credits and expertise at the same time. Jump Ahead Earn credits that will help you get ahead in your program, catch up or graduate early. Add Skills Taking stand-alone classes can advance your knowledge and expertise, and increase your value to future employers. Transfer Credits to Your School Students from other institutions can take advantage of Isenberg Online’s outstanding offerings and transfer credits from UMass. See What Courses We're Offering Take a look at the classes offered this semester and sign up.  You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.