Follow us Subscribe Using business intelligence, we deliver tailor-made solutions for brands and publishers around the world CNNIC provides access to a global audience of primed consumers for brands and publishers. Across TV, digital and social, our trusted brand ensures a safe space for advertisers and our commitment to quality journalism enables us to provide unrivalled multiplatform content for distribution and licensing. With a dedicated team for audience insight, CNNIC can offer custom target audiences and reliable insight for the development of brands and campaigns. households & hotel rooms monthly page views multiplatform views social fans Every service offered by CNNIC is personalised to meet your brand needs and driven by the audience insight our global platforms afford us. With teams of experts in a variety of specialisms, we are confident in our ability to utilise our trusted platforms to help you achieve your goals. From content creation and campaign development, to licensing and distribution deals – CNNIC is your gateway to brand growth. Insights Strategy Branding Content Licensing & Distribution Training & Consulting Discover the success of our data driven approach to campaigns with a deep dive into previous multiplatform solutions through our case studies. Whether you are looking for a custom crafted campaign or seeking to expand your publishing channel with content from CNN, see how our expertise can help your brand grow. Highlighting the vision, 'Old Meets New' focusing on affluent travellers Targeting new companies to invest in the future of Great Britain Harnessing local knowledge to drive awareness Video-led storytelling A multifaceted cross-platform approach promotes city EXPO Creating a new world of travel content Increasing market growth through the Exceptional Experiences campaign and a new hybrid car Raising recognition of the Tohoku region as a destination filled with authentic experiences Highlighting the huge variety of tourism offerings available to a global audience Promoting tourism and sport to a wide range of travel enthusiasts Technical specifications Technical requirements across TV, digital, mobile and social platforms It’s always nice to be recognised for a job well done. Here are just a few of the awards CNNIC have won for our campaigns and original content. Want to target engaged audiences, license content or create authority around your brand? 2018 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.