To ensure public protection, each jurisdiction requires candidates for registered nurse licensure to meet set requirements that include passing an examination that measures the competencies needed to perform safely and effectively as a newly licensed, entry-level registered nurse. Triennially, NCSBN conducts a practice analysis to analyze entry-level RN practice. Using the data collected from the practice analysis, the NCLEX Test Plan is developed, which guides the selection of content and behaviors to be tested during NCLEX administration. This webinar will provide an overview of the 2019 NCLEX-RN Test Plan, including new information effective with the test plan revision. 2019 | Recorded Webinar An overview of the Next Generation NCLEX project (NGN). Topics covered include: 2018 | Recorded Webinar To ensure public protection, each jurisdiction requires candidates for practical nurse licensure to meet set requirements that include passing an examination that measures the competencies needed to perform safely and effectively as a newly licensed, entry-level practical nurse. NCSBN develops a licensure examination, the NCLEX-PN, which is used by jurisdictions to assist in making licensure decisions. Triennially, NCSBN conducts the NCLEX-PN Practice Analysis to analyze entry-level PN practice. Using the data collected from the practice analysis, NCSBN develops the NCLEX Test Plan which guides the selection of content and behaviors to be tested during NCLEX administration. In April 2017, the new 2017 NCLEX-PN Test Plan will become effective. This webinar will provide an overview of the 2017 NCLEX-PN Test Plan, including new information effective with the test plan revision. 2017 | Recorded Webinar To ensure public protection, each jurisdiction requires candidates for registered nurse licensure to meet set requirements that include passing an examination that measures the competencies needed to perform safely and effectively as a newly licensed, entry-level registered nurse. NCSBN develops a licensure examination, the NCLEX-RN, which is used by jurisdictions to assist in making licensure decisions. Triennially, NCSBN conducts the NCLEX-RN Practice Analysis to analyze entry-level RN practice. Using the data collected from the practice analysis, NCSBN develops the NCLEX Test Plan which guides the selection of content and behaviors to be tested during NCLEX administration. In April 2016, the new 2016 NCLEX-RN Test Plan will become effective. This webinar will provide an overview of the 2016 NCLEX-RN Test Plan, including new information effective with the test plan revision. 2015 | Recorded Webinar Brief overview of the Nurse Licensure Compact 2014 | Recorded Webinar The Item Writing and Item review Webinar will provide an overview of the Item development process. It explains the processes of item writing and item review used to ensure the validity, reliability and legal defensibility of the NCLEX exam. The session will also discuss and provide a direct link to valuable NCLEX resources, along with a connection to the next segment in the series. This webinar is part of the 2013 NCLEX Examinations Webinar Series. This series includes the following webinars:   2013 | Recorded Webinar 2013 | Recorded Webinar This rule is the most common for NCLEX candidates. The computer will stop giving items when it is 95% certain that your ability is clearly above or clearly below the passing standard. 2013 | Recorded Webinar When your ability is very close to the passing standard, the computer continues to give you items until the maximum number of items is reached. At this point, the computer disregards the 95% confidence rule and decides whether you pass or fail by your final ability estimate.  2013 | Recorded Webinar When you run out of time before reaching the maximum amount of items, the computer has not been able to decide whether you passed or failed with 95% certainty and has to use an alternate rule. This does not mean you must answer the last 60 items correctly. Each ability estimate is based on all the previous items that you have answered. 2013 | Recorded Webinar 2013 | Recorded Webinar The Scope of Practice, NCLEX Practice Analysis and Knowledge, Skills and Abilities webinar will cover the beginning principles in the development of the NCLEX examination which is used by nursing regulatory bodies to make primary nursing licensure decisions. The session will also discuss and provide a direct link to valuable NCLEX resources, along with a connection to the next segment in the series. This webinar is part of the 2013 NCLEX Examinations Webinar Series. This series includes the following webinars:   2013 | Recorded Webinar This webinar will provide an overview of the Nurse Licensure Compact and will focus on licensing. 2013 | Recorded Webinar The use of Electronic Health Records (EHRs) has grown over the past few years and is now seen as an essential part of primary and acute patient care and case management. Boards of Nursing retain responsibility for public safety and need to be aware of current practices, policies and patient safety enhancements with the use of EHRs. This engaging program will provide nursing regulatory bodies with: Presenter: Thomas Andrews, RN-BC,MS Director, Acute Care Informatics Presence Health For the best viewing experience, view video in full screen. 2012 | Recorded Webinar This NCLEX-RN Webinar for Canadian Nursing Educators provides an overview of the role of regulatory examinations, why the NCLEX was selected for Canadian RN entry to practice, an introduction to the elements of computerized adaptive testing and NCLEX development, as well as information on how students and educators can prepare for the NCLEX in 2015. The objectives of this webinar are:  2012 | Recorded Webinar Why all the buzz about NCSBN’s World Café meeting? In December of 2011, the NCSBN Nursing Education Committee hosted a World Café meeting as part of their work to make recommendations for the future of nursing program approval. This innovative meeting brought together regulators, educators and accreditors to shape the future of nursing education. The Webinar features the results of the World Café discussions and illustrates what contributed to its success. Next steps for nursing regulatory bodies (NRBs) in moving forward with nursing program approval initiatives are discussed, highlighting our new online toolkit that provides NRBs with resources and support for requiring national nursing accreditation. This engaging program will provide NRBs with an overview of: Presenter: Nancy Spector, PhD, RN Director, Regulatory Innovations 2012 | Recorded Webinar This webinar will educate participants on the basic principles of the biannual NRB Review of NCLEX items, the NCLEX candidate re-entry process and the NCLEX candidate score transfer process. 2019 | Recorded Webinar NCSBN IT staff discuss changes to nursys.com that went into effect on March 26, 2019. 2019 | Recorded Webinar The NCSBN Leadership Succession Committee (LSC) host a Leadership Succession Call to recognize influential NCSBN Leaders to provide future, emerging, and current leaders of NCSBN with opportunities to enhance and develop leadership succession knowledge and skills. On April 29, 2019, LSC Committee members Sara Griffith, Board Staff, North Carolina Board of Nursing, and Melissa Hanson, Board Staff, North Dakota Board of Nursing, interviewed two NCSBN leaders about their experiences in running for office. Paula Meyer, Executive Director, Washington State Nursing Care Quality Assurance Commission, and David E. Saucedo II, Board Member, Texas Board of Nursing discussed the comraderies they experienced from serving in leadership positions. Learn about their roads to leadership, the confidence they gained and the mentors who influenced them to get involved. 2019 | Recorded Webinar The NCSBN Leadership Succession Committee (LSC) host a Leadership Succession Call to recognize influential NCSBN Leaders to provide future, emerging, and current leaders of NCSBN with opportunities to enhance and develop leadership succession knowledge and skills. Listen in on the February 19, 2019 Leadership Succession Call. LSC member Tracy Rude, President, Washington State Nursing Care Quality Assurance Commission interviews Cathy Borris-Hale, Board Staff, District of Columbia Board of Nursing and Sue Petula, Board Staff, Pennsylvania State Board of Nursing. 2019 | Recorded Webinar This webinar will show you how to run reports in the IntelliVUE 2.0 reporting platform (launched February 2017). NCSBN psychometric staff will demonstrate how to run Candidate Reports, Program Reports and Quarterly Reports and will highlight their differences. After this webinar, you will be able to run the reports that meet your needs and know how to automatically run and generate your subscribed reports, on a daily, weekly, monthly or quarterly basis. 2018 | Recorded Webinar The NCSBN Leadership Succession Committee (LSC) host a Leadership Succession Call to recognize influential NCSBN Leaders to provide future, emerging, and current leaders of NCSBN with opportunities to enhance and develop leadership succession knowledge and skills. Listen in on the November 7, 2018 Leadership Succession Call: Kaci Bohn, LSC chair, interviews Kathy Thomas, Executive Director, Texas Board of Nursing and former NCSBN Board President. 2018 | Recorded Webinar Overview of some Nursys best practices by nursing regulatory bodies 2018 | Recorded Webinar Overview of reports available in Nursys Reports at Your Fingertips 2018 | Recorded Webinar Overview of the accommodations process which will detail the online process, provide insight into NCSBN’s review, and highlight frequently asked questions. 2018 | Recorded Webinar Learn about the logistics of item writing and review panels including various volunteer opportunities that you can pass along to potential volunteers. Topics include the application process, selection criteria, and an overview of what it is like to be a participant on a panel. 2018 | Recorded Webinar This webinar will educate participants on the basic principles of program code maintenance, provide information on the program code resources available to nursing regulatory bodies and clarify common program code questions. 2017 | Recorded Webinar This webinar will provide information on how the candidate level change is processed. In addition, participants will be able to fill out the Candidate Level Change Request form and verify the change. 2017 | Recorded Webinar The NCLEX is administered under strict supervision and security measures as a part of NCSBN’s mission to promote patient safety and public protection. This webinar will take a behind-the-scenes look at the security measures in place at the testing centers, case reporting via our new platform Service Direct and the Results Cancellation Process. At the end of this webinar, nursing regulatory body participants will be able to better understand candidate cases as well as their role in the Results Cancellation Process. 2017 | Recorded Webinar This Webinar gives an overview of NCSBN’s Commitment to Ongoing Regulatory Excellence (CORE) program. CORE allows nursing regulatory bodies to monitor, analyze and report comparative performance information. 2016 | Recorded Webinar This Webinar provides NCSBN member’s advice on developing effective surveys. Participants will learn how to select the correct type of question in order to gather the information they want, learn how to avoid common mistakes in designing surveys and learn helpful tips for making their surveys more informative. 2016 | Recorded Webinar Standard setting is a process used to determine a cut point on an ability continuum. Examinees scoring above the cut point are considered competent and able to practice safely and effectively. The NCSBN Board of Directors re-evaluates the passing standard every three years or when the test plan changes. This webinar provides a brief description of how the standard setting method (Modified Angoff) used by NCSBN works and information on how NCLEX standard setting is conducted using a small test example. 2016 | Recorded Webinar This webinar discusses the principles of item writing with a focus on writing NCLEX-style items. 2016 | Recorded Webinar This is a two-part webinar: the re-entry of previously passing candidates and the NCLEX score transfer process for non-licensed candidates. Both of these processes require communication between nursing regulatory bodies (NRBs), Pearson VUE and NCSBN. This session should help answer questions that NRBs may have in regards to re-entry candidates and the NCLEX score transfer process. 2016 | Recorded Webinar Nursing regulators, nursing educators and candidates remain actively engaged in the NCLEX. As such, we receive a number of questions about the NCLEX on topics ranging from examination development principles and sample content, to exam administration and using computerized adaptive testing, or CAT. We have compiled these questions and answers, and invite you to join us as we uncover the NCLEX FAQs 2016 | Recorded Webinar This webinar introduces a new, dynamic report (Education Program Pass Rate) that will be launched in January 2016 through Pearson VUE’S Business Intelligence platform. Here, our psychometric staff reviews existing reports and demonstrates how this new report will provide a better and easier way to get the information you need. After this webinar, you will be able to run the Education Program Pass Rate report for students who were educated in your jurisdiction and licensed in all jurisdictions—both first timers and repeaters. This report includes both an education program summary and individual student information. 2015 | Recorded Webinar This webinar offers insight into the practice analysis and test plan development process used to create the NCLEX. The information discussed in this webinar can be used to assist nursing regulatory bodies with further understanding test content and purpose. 2015 | Recorded Webinar 2014 | Recorded Webinar Join the NCSBN Exams ADA Team to learn more information about the details of the ADA process. 2014 | Recorded Webinar In order to support the expansion of new nursing programs within existing jurisdictions as well as to accommodate the expansion of the NCLEX in Canada, NCSBN is lengthening the NCLEX Educational Program Codes from 5 to 10 characters. This webinar explains the change to the Program Codes and provides key dates. Members can use this information to communicate the change to the program codes to the programs within their jurisdiction. 2014 | Recorded Webinar This NCLEX Webinar provides an overview of the NCLEX quarterly reports and education program summary, including a demonstration of the differences between reports, methods of report comparison and how to use the dynamic reports to fit specific needs. Visit the Quarterly Reports page for more information on the review process. For the best viewing experience, view video in full screen. 2013 | Recorded Webinar This NCLEX Webinar provides an overview of the NCLEX quarterly reports and education program summary, including a demonstration of the differences between reports, methods of report comparison and how to use the dynamic reports to fit specific needs. The objectives of this webinar cover the following: Visit the Quarterly Reports page for more information on the review process. For the best viewing experience, view video in full screen. 2013 | Recorded Webinar Le webinaire Rédaction et révision de questions du NCLEX donne un aperçu du processus d’élaboration des questions. Il explique les processus qui sont appliqués à la rédaction et à la révision des questions pour obtenir un examen NCLEX valide, fiable et défendable sur le plan juridique. La séance présente également des ressources très utiles sur le NCLEX et des liens directs vers ces ressources, de même qu’un lien vers le segment suivant de la série. 2013 | Recorded Webinar Le webinaire Plan d’examen du NCLEX donne un aperçu du plan de l’examen NCLEX et de son contenu, en explique les différentes versions et montre l’utilité du document et comment l’utiliser. La séance présente également des ressources très utiles sur le NCLEX et des liens directs vers ces ressources, de même qu’un lien vers le segment suivant de la série. 2013 | Recorded Webinar Le webinaire Champ d’exercice, analyse de la pratique, et connaissances, compétences et habiletés porte sur les principes fondateurs de l’élaboration du NCLEX, l’examen sur lequel s’appuient les organismes de réglementation de la profession infirmière pour prendre des décisions relativement à l’attribution de l’autorisation d’exercer. La séance présente également des ressources très utiles sur le NCLEX et des liens directs vers ces ressources, de même qu’un lien vers le segment suivant de la série. Ce webinaire fait partie de la série de webinaires de 2013 sur les examens NCLEX. La série comporte les webinaires suivants: 2013 | Recorded Webinar Le webinaire Analyse de la sensibilité et des DIF porte sur les processus d’analyse des biais de mesure différentiels et de révision des questions. Le webinaire décrit l’objectif des processus et procédures appliqués à la révision des questions pour résoudre les aspects liés à la sensibilité et aux DIF. La séance présente également des ressources très utiles sur le NCLEX et des liens directs vers ces ressources, de même qu’un lien vers le segment suivant de la série. 2013 | Recorded Webinar Le Conseil canadien des organismes de réglementation de la profession infirmière (CCORPI) et le National Council of State Boards of Nursing (NCSBN) ont le plaisir d’annoncer le webinaire sur l’examen NCLEX. Ce webinaire donnera un aperçu du rôle des examens de réglementation et des raisons qui ont motivé le choix du NCLEX pour l’examen d’admission à la profession infirmière au Canada, présentera les éléments d’un examen adaptatif informatisé et expliquera l’élaboration du NCLEX. Le webinaire fournira aussi de l’information sur la façon dont les étudiantes et les enseignantes peuvent se préparer à l’examen NCLEX prévu pour 2015. 2012 | Recorded Webinar ©2019 National Council of State Boards of Nursing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.