tel: (617) 243-1961 wadsworth@library.umass.edu  The Wadsworth Library has 11 desktop workstations (10 PCs, 1 Mac), access to the campus wireless network, and a black and white and color printer, copier, and scanner. There are 3 bookable study rooms, each with a large monitor which can be connected to a laptop. Open quiet study spaces are available with individual and group seating. For students, faculty, and staff of UMass Amherst, the UCard is the library card. Massachusetts residents and UMass Amherst alumni - complete this form if you are not a UMass or 5 College Faculty, student or staff member. The process will be completed when you arrive in person to pick up your card. We require a current valid state-issued photo ID and may require additional documentation for identity and address verification purposes. PLEASE NOTE: New applicants will be subject to a borrowing limit of ONE ITEM for up to 30 days until an identity/address verification process has been completed. Apply for a Borrowing card (Please make sure to select Wadsworth Library Mt. Ida campus as the card pickup location on the application form.) The UMass Amherst Libraries will provide electronic copies of articles or book chapters on request, and will borrow materials not available in our collections from other libraries. You can read more about our services at Interlibrary Loan FAQ or click the button below to login using your UMass Amherst NetID and password to submit your request (first time users will be directed to a short registration form). Login to Interlibrary Loan/Library Express The UMass Amherst Libraries subscribe to many online resources subject to license restrictions that limit off-campus access to UMass Amherst students, faculty, and staff only. You can access these resources through the Libraries website. When prompted, login with your NetID and password. Looking for the best resources? We've got course guides, research guides, and more. Just ask! Veterinary Technology Subject Guide There are 3 glass study rooms, each with a large screen that can be connected to a laptop. Reserve a Group Study Room Need help developing a research topic or locating sources for in-depth research? Want assistance with citing sources? Book a research session today! This one-on-one research consultation service is available for all current Mt. Ida Campus of UMass Amherst faculty, students, and staff. We are here to assist with any research assignment at any stage of the research process! Located in Wadsworth Library, the ATC offers instruction, training, and support for assistive technology tools to any member of the University community. The ATC provides a workspace and access to specialized software and tools for individuals with an ADA-defined disability. If you have questions about the ATC, please email atc@umass.edu. Course Reserves consists of items instructors have chosen to support regular course materials and allows many users to have equal access. Some reserves items can be accessed electronically while print materials are available from the Service Desk for 3 hours in building use. Partner with us to help your students succeed! We'll work with you to teach them about the research process, how to be critical users of information, and how to be successful researchers. We can work with you to: Request a session Faculty can request to have library staff place physical and digital materials on reserve for classes. Physical materials circulate within the library for 3 hours. Please allow up to two weeks for processing of requests. Reserve request form Contact us: 777 Dedham St. Newton, MA 02459 (617) 243-1961 wadsworth@library.umass.edu  Mon. - Thu: 8am – 8pm, Fri: 8am - 5pm Saturday: 10am - 5pm © 2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact