The MPH in nutrition is the first fully online and fully accredited program of its kind. Launched in 2008, the program aims to provide nutrition, public-health, and health-care professionals the opportunity to continue their education and enhance their careers. **The program does not include a dietetic internship and does not prepare students to sit for the Registered Dietitian Exam. UMass does offer a 27-month track for five interns who work concurrently on an online MPH-N, providing 44 graduate credits plus 12 DI-graduate credits. Students must be local or willing to complete the internship portion in western Massachusetts. For more information, please contact Judy Dowd, 413-545-1066 or judyd@nutrition.umass.edu.  There are two different criteria for admissions to the program. Prospective students need to meet either one of these, not both: Criteria 1: Criteria 2: (students must meet all four of these) We consider applications twice a year: Students apply through the UMass graduate school. Apply now. Application checklist and timeline Students should submit all of the following with their application: All application materials not submitted using the online application should be sent to: Graduate Student Service Center 534 Goodell Building University of Massachusetts 140 Hicks Way Amherst Ma 01003-9333 Fax: 413-577-0010 The program will waive the GRE for students who meet one of the following: If you have questions about the GRE waiver, please contact the department. The TOEFL can be waived in the following circumstances: The MPH in Nutrition schedules regular information sessions. The session is hosted in Zoom. You can download Zoom, free, or join the meeting here. If you have already submitted an application and you wish to know if it is complete or check on its status, please call the department at 413-545-4530 Prospective Students are allowed to take MPH-Nutrition courses prior to submitting their application. Prospective students may take non-degree program courses for the following reasons: Prospective students can take up to 4 courses as a non-degree student and as long as they earn a B or better in each course, the course/s will transfer into the MPH degree once they have been admitted. Please note that taking non-degree courses does not guarantee admissions. Enrollment for non-degree students opens approximately one month prior to the semester start date. Prospective non-degree students should contact the program office at phonline@schoolph.umass.edu or 413-545-4530 for information and instructions on how to enroll. Summer enrollment is now open. You can preview courses here. Please contact the department for enrollment instructions. Fall enrollment opens on July 1st, 2019. For a preview, please click here. All students regardless of location pay the same tuition and fees. The program requires 44 credits total. Students are required to complete core courses in both public health and nutrition, a 200-hour practicum, and a 6-credit final Independent Study Project. Public Health Core: 15 credits Nutrition Core: 17 Credits Elective course: 3 credits Students can choose a graduate level nutrition or public health elective of their choice. Practicum: 3 credits Final Independent Study Project: 6 credits Download the full MPH-Nutrition Curriculum. Are you looking for funding opportunities? Please download this comprehensive list of Public Health Scholarships. Online Master of Public Health Degree Programs 715 North Pleasant St., Arnold House Room 101 University of Massachusetts Amherst, MA 01003 phone: (413) 545-4530 | (413) 545-4550 phonline@schoolph.umass.edu ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact