We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Hairy non scary, Real ale lover, @officialgtfc fan & General football obsessive, plus much more besides You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. Make mixed tapes #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo My point was in relation to the fact you don't tend to use tapes to record to make our own mix like we once did. Instead we now use Spotify and other means to create playlists. ....it's called a playlist ...which is not a mixtape. Just did one for my son going to college. Its functionally the same thing. But, it’s not. how so? I created a customized set of songs for a person and a mood. Different creation process but end result same So different and process is important. You had to possess the songs to use. Figure out how many songs would fit and plan accordingly, order was important, obviously. Queue up your tape deck. Decide what to write / how to decorate the jacket, plus it was a physical gift to give And it was fucking glorious! I still have some of mine. NOT the same as a playlist at all. Me too! I By waiting all afternoon for our favorite songs to come on the radio. They make mix playlists. Kinda the same. pic.twitter.com/JiiTfZqhWT It’s LITERALLY the same. Oops... that's what I just tweeted, having not seen this yet. I make my gf mix cds. Not tapes but close! Always wanted to do that! Never had the equipment to do so. Or even a Walkman for that matter... They can make mix memory sticks though. :P  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.