The Office of Research in the College of Nursing provides support services to faculty, research staff, and graduate students to meet their research goals and compete for external funding. This includes providing information on internal and external funding sources and resources, assisting with grant applications, holding events, and working with the University’s Office of Research and Engagement for proposal submission and post-award compliance. The staff of the Office for Research is comprised a grants coordinator who is available to assist faculty with planning their research efforts. Please inform the Office of Research once you have identified a grant that you would like to apply for, whether the submission is a full proposal or a Letter of Intent (LOI). Please also make an appointment with Dr. Jacelon to discuss your intentions.   We can then let you know whether this needs to be entered into Kuali Research (the University's software tool that facilitates sponsored activities workflow) and approved by the University's Office of Pre-Award Services (OPAS). If the LOI or proposal has to go through OPAS, the Office of Research requires a minimum of three weeks notice (four weeks if subcontracts are required or the UMass Foundation needs to be involved). If we receive less notice, then we cannot guarantee that your proposal will be submitted.   The earlier that you are able to inform the Office of Research of your intentions, the more assistance that we will be able to provide. The Office of Research can offer guidance on application requirements to ensure proposal compliance, establish a timetable for submission, assist with the development of a budget and detailed budget justification, provide necessary forms, and review your submission. If you would like to learn more about our PhD program, please click here. Links to various resources that College of Nursing researchers may find of interest, including information on UMass Amherst's new grants submission system, Kuali Research, UMass Amherst procedures, and National Institutes of Health resources, can be found here. Office of Research Contact Information: Office of Research Skinner Hall 138 651 North Pleasant Street Amherst, MA 01003 413.545.5087 officeofresearch@nursing.umass.edu     Funded by a 5-year grant from the National Institutes of Health, the mission of the UManage Center is to build the science of symptom self-management through the use of wearable and hand-held technologies.  The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master’s degree program in nursing and Doctor of Nursing Practice degree program at the University of Massachusetts Amherst College of Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The baccalaureate degree program is fully approved by the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Nursing. The University of Massachusetts Amherst is accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE; formerly the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges).     