Jump to navigation Our on-campus master's program offers several MBA/MS dual degree options to consider. If you have a very specialized area of interest or career goal in mind, a dual degree may be a great option for you. In partnership with the applicable departments, we currently offer six dual degrees in three programs. Get a competitive edge with a graduate degree from the "Business School for Sport Business." To graduate from the dual degree program, students must fulfill the degree requirements for both programs and complete the required 72 credits (37 MBA & 35 MS). This will typically take 24 to 27 months, depending on the type of internship taken. Upon successful completion, two distinct degrees will be awarded: Master of Business Administration and Master of Science in Sport Management. We encourage you to explore both these graduate programs on their respective pages: On-Campus MBA MS in Sport Management Choosing the right program can make a significant difference in your career in the sport industry. The rapid growth in grad sport level programs offer a variety of options. Additionally, there is no accredited ranking system for these programs, and publications and websites that have attempted to rank programs have combined a variety of types of grad programs. You can also view the sport management masters digital brochure and our curriculum. This dual degree, offered through our On-Campus MBA program and the School of Public Policy is designed to allow qualified students to pursue an integrated and comprehensive course of study in policy, public management, and business administration. Graduates will be ready for careers at any level of government and management or analyst positions in the nonprofit and private sectors in the United States and abroad. This dual degree takes three years to complete. Students enrolled may begin their studies in either program, but it is best to complete a full year in one program before beginning the second program. During the second year, students will fulfill the core requirements of the other program. Students will fulfill the remaining requirements of both programs in the third year of study. Sample Program Timetable While applicants must meet each program's own admission standards (and be admitted to both programs), students only need to submit one application to the university's Graduate Admissions Office. Deadline February 1: Applications must be received by the Graduate Admissions Office to receive priority consideration for graduate assistantship funding from the School of Public Policy. For more information on the On-Campus MBA program, visit the website, and click on the link below to go to the School of Public Policy website. The College of Engineering offers six Master of Science programs, four of which are currently participating in the MBA/MS Dual Degree Program in partnership with our On-Campus MBA program: In each program, students earn both the MBA and MS degrees in approximately three years. Candidates must complete their first year in the MBA program, where they take their classes in a cohort with first-year MBA students and other dual degree seekers. Students complete 33 credits during their first year. During their second and third years, candidates take a total of 30 to 31 credits (25 course credits and a thesis) at the College of Engineering, as well as a 9-credit MBA practicum. The total number of credits required to complete one of the dual degree programs is 73 (42 in the MBA, 31 in Engineering). Upon completion, graduates can expect to find leadership positions within their disciplines and careers in technology or engineering management. For more information on the On-Campus MBA program, visit this page. To learn more about the four engineering dual degree options, contact the program director or click on the link below to go to the College of Engineering website. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.