Jump to navigation Join us at an upcoming event and learn more about the Isenberg MBA and our other professional programs. These occasions are a great opportunity to ask questions of advisors, professors and current students. Our recruiting team will be on hand to answer your questions and can help you determine the option that best suits your needs. Join host Lara Curtis, Program Information Specialist, and Mike Famighette, Program Director, to learn more about Isenberg’s residential, On-Campus MBA program. The session will cover FAQ’s about the admissions process, curriculum overview, and the Isenberg MBA fellowship. Register today! Join host Lara Curtis, Program Information Specialist, and Mike Famighette, Program Director, to learn more about Isenberg’s residential, On-Campus MBA program. The session will cover FAQ’s about the admissions process, curriculum overview, and the Isenberg MBA fellowship. Register today! Join MaryBeth Kimball, Director of New Business Development, for a live information session in Boston to learn more about Isenberg’s Online MBA program. Students in the Boston area can choose to take courses that are completely online, or a combination of online coursework with in-person lectures and collaboration at The University of Massachusetts Club on Beacon Street. The session will cover FAQ’s about the admissions process and curriculum overview. Register today! Join MaryBeth Kimball, Director of New Business Development, for a live information session in Springfield to learn more about Isenberg’s Online MBA program. Students in the Springfield area can choose to take courses that are completely online, or a combination of online coursework with in-person lectures and collaboration at the UMass Center at Tower Square. The session will cover FAQ’s about the admissions process and curriculum overview. Register today! Join MaryBeth Kimball, Director of New Business Development, for a live information session in Shrewsbury to learn more about Isenberg’s Online MBA program. Students in the Shrewsbury area can choose to take courses that are completely online, or a combination of online coursework with in-person lectures and collaboration at the UMass Collaborative Facilities. The session will cover FAQ’s about the admissions process and curriculum overview. Register today! Join MaryBeth Kimball, Director of New Business Development, to learn more about Isenberg’s Online MBA program. The session will cover FAQ’s about the admissions process and curriculum overview. Register today! Join host Elizabeth Hoffman, Program Information Specialist, and Mike Famighette, Program Director, to learn more about Isenberg’s residential, On-Campus MBA program. The session will cover FAQ’s about the admissions process, curriculum overview, and the Isenberg MBA fellowship. Register today! Isenberg Visit Days, hosted by the On-Campus MBA, are opportunities for you to get a detailed overview of the MBA Program’s distinctive features and admission process. Take this opportunity to ask questions and learn more about the program. Register today! Isenberg Visit Days, hosted by the On-Campus MBA, are opportunities for you to get a detailed overview of the MBA Program’s distinctive features and admission process. Take this opportunity to ask questions and learn more about the program. Register today! Isenberg Visit Days, hosted by the On-Campus MBA, are opportunities for you to get a detailed overview of the MBA Program’s distinctive features and admission process. Take this opportunity to ask questions and learn more about the program. Register today! Join host Lara Curtis, Program Information Specialist, and Mike Famighette, Program Director, to learn more about Isenberg’s residential, On-Campus MBA program. The session will cover FAQ’s about the admissions process, curriculum overview, and the Isenberg MBA fellowship. Register today! Isenberg Visit Days, hosted by the On-Campus MBA, are opportunities for you to get a detailed overview of the MBA Program’s distinctive features and admission process. Take this opportunity to ask questions and learn more about the program. Register today! Join MaryBeth Kimball, Director of New Business Development, to learn more about Isenberg’s Online MBA program. The session will cover FAQ’s about the admissions process and curriculum overview. Register today! Join host Elizabeth Hoffman, Program Information Specialist, and Mike Famighette, Program Director, to learn more about Isenberg’s residential, On-Campus MBA program. The session will cover FAQ’s about the admissions process, curriculum overview, and the Isenberg MBA fellowship. Register today! Read more You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.