We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Fascinated by navel lint. Not just my lint but yours. Host @FunSizeTags. The Self Proclaim King of Self Proclamation. The Denzel of Dolphins. You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo Write in Cursive!pic.twitter.com/LwnaJt5ZLB It’s how I keep secrets from my son pic.twitter.com/1jZa3Tr4pY I even struggle reading cursivive! I'm sixteen, but my 6-year-old cousin can do this toopic.twitter.com/efa6wMlttQ That's very nice! So Cursive is still alive! In some places anyway Good one! Thanks Mick! It’s becoming a lost art...pic.twitter.com/pr98lZ92dl You're Very Right about that! Thank You Katzz! Always welcome Evan They don’t teach cursive anymore least not in Cali which drives me insane you at least should learn cursive for your signature in 20-30 years kids won’t know how to write at all everything will be electronic but what if at one point there’s no more electricity? I live in California and my third grader son started learning cursive last year. tbh cursive is way less convenient Good schools will teach drafting print which is useful in life if you want to be an engineer, architect, or just able to have people understand your handwriting. If you want to do cursive, maybe take calligraphy in an art class - but it's totally useless in the real world. Read cursive writing. #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo Ha I went to private school. But that's true my younger siblings never know what Im writing. Funny and a little sad! I was livid when a #Millennial government employee couldn’t READ a form I completed in PRINT. Kept insisting it was CURSIVEHad me TYPE text in PDF. Meanwhile, 5 versions later, I still had to sign off on the allegedly cursive original—in cursive #thingstodayskidscantdo  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.