Embedded Tweets bring your pick of content from Twitter into your website articles. An embedded Tweet includes photos, video and cards media created for display on Twitter, and can even stream live video from Periscope. All aspects of Twitter’s display requirements are handled for you by using our tools; author attribution, Tweet actions, hashtags, mentions, and other key components of the Twitter experience. Sunsets don't get much better than this one over @GrandTetonNPS. #nature #sunset pic.twitter.com/YuKy2rcjyU  An embedded Tweet consists of two parts: An HTML snippet hosted in your web page, and the Twitter for Websites JavaScript to transform that code into a fully-rendered Tweet. You can copy embedded Tweet markup generated from the Tweet menu on Twitter.com or TweetDeck, paste a URL into a supporting CMS, or add a Tweet to the page programmatically using a JavaScript factory function.  Every Tweet displayed on Twitter.com and in TweetDeck includes an embed code to easily copy-and-paste into your webpage. Activate the Tweet menu and select “Embed Tweet” to generate markup to include on your webpage:  Programmatically convert a Tweet URL into embedded Tweet markup using the oEmbed API. Make embedding a Tweet in your CMS or app as simple as pasting a Tweet URL. Our CMS best practices guide describes common patterns for sites adding software support for embedded Tweets. Customize an embedded Tweet for your site’s visual design and display preferences by including extra parameters in your embedded Tweet HTML. An embedded Tweet supports light and dark color themes and custom link colors. Customize Twitter widgets at the page-level with <meta> elements or add data-* attributes to individual generated <blockquote> elements. View our embedded Tweet reference documentation for a full list of embedded Tweet options. A Tweet may be in reply to another Tweet. By default, we include a summary of the previous Tweet in the conversation to provide context. Default View @WilliamShatner Good day, Captain. #ISS is in standard orbit and Commander Swanson has the conn. Hope you’re having a great weekend! conversation = none @WilliamShatner Good day, Captain. #ISS is in standard orbit and Commander Swanson has the conn. Hope you’re having a great weekend! Set an oEmbed query parameter of hide_thread=true or add a data-conversation="none" attribute to the resulting <blockquote> element to prevent the display of a parent Tweet. A Tweet may include a photo, video, or link to or other content supporting a Card. By default, this media is displayed in embedded Tweets. You can hide this media if editorially desired. Default View Sunsets don't get much better than this one over @GrandTetonNPS. #nature #sunset pic.twitter.com/YuKy2rcjyU cards = hidden Sunsets don't get much better than this one over @GrandTetonNPS. #nature #sunset pic.twitter.com/YuKy2rcjyU Set an oEmbed query parameter of hide_media=true or add a data-cards="hidden" attribute to the resulting <blockquote> element to prevent expanded content display. Our widget JavaScript scans the DOM on execution, converting blockquote.twitter-tweet elements into fully-rendered embedded Tweets based on element content. If dynamically inserting new content into a page, pass the new document fragment to twttr.widgets.load() to initialize embedded Tweet content. To directly render an embedded Tweet at runtime use the twttr.widgets.createTweet() function.  © 2019 Twitter, Inc. By using Twitter’s services you agree to our Cookies Use. We use cookies for purposes including analytics, personalisation, and ads. This page and certain other Twitter sites place and read third party cookies on your browser that are used for non-essential purposes including targeting of ads. Through these cookies, Google and Demandbase collect personal data about you for their own purposes. Learn more.