Jump to navigation What is the relationship between "CISDM", "Morningstar" and the Isenberg School of Management? Are you part of the Isenberg School of Management? We are affiliated with the Isenberg school of Management. This is the home of CISDM wherein we manage and update the Morningstar CISDM Hedge fund database. How about the database coverage in the different areas? Is this CISDM database mainly focusing in America or globally? The database coverage is global. It does not focus on any particular geographic region. May we have a trial access before we decide to purchase this database? Sample files of the two databases can be shared, which includes data for 10 funds each (Active Funds database and Grave Funds database). Do you provide the regular hedge fund report? We update the hedge fund database biannually. Moreover, the individual performance of strategies is published on the Isenberg CISDM website. This report presents the performance of the indexes and a commentary on the performance. When is the database updated? The database is updated twice every year: June and December. Does it include mutual funds data? The database contains details of Hedge funds only. What are the details of each fund? (or) What are the fields of information in the database? Sample files of the database can be requested from CISDM point of contact: cisdm@isenberg.umass.edu Where can I find the indices of CISDM Hedge funds? CISDM Indices are published monthly on Bloomberg and on our website. Can the price quoted for the database be discounted based on the data required? The price quoted is for the complete CISDM Hedge Fund database. This includes both Active and Dead funds data. They are not offered separately, or in parts. Is there an overview of the database to get better understanding? Fact sheets and statistics of the database can be accessed from our website. A sample file can also be request from our point of contact: cisdm@isenberg.umass.edu I am trying to get information on the portfolio allocations of funds by country. Does your database have this information? We have very limited information on country allocation in our database. There is a field for currency and another for countries/regions but there are no figures about the relative sizes of the investments and whether actual investments are made. How is the access to the database granted? Once the access to the CISDM Hedge fund database is approved, we shall share a one?time download link and a password to download the database. This download link expires in 7 days from the date of issue. If the user is unable to download within the 7?day time period due to any reason, they can contact our office for issuance of a fresh download link. What does one time download mean? We generally give access for 7 days. In this period, the user can download the database files as many times as they want, using the credentials we have provided. After the 7 day period expires, their link to the database becomes invalid, and they have to get back to us to extend their access, this is done in situations such as faulty file, or broken links. What are graveyard funds? Funds which haven’t reported any returns in the six months prior to the date of update of the database, are moved to CISDM Graveyard Funds list. What is difference between individual and campus wide license? The individual license is given to one person alone and only he/she can use the data to do research. The campus wide license allows all current faculty and students to use the data for research. Why can I view the indices but not the database? The indices are available on the website and can be accessed by the public. The database is not available to the public and can be obtained at a fee only after a license agreement has been signed. Is Morningstar database and CISDM Database different? The CISDM database available through WRDS is the same as that available through Morningstar. Are future updates included when I purchase the CISDM Hedge fund database? We update the database twice a year: mid?year and end of year. You would have to purchase the database every six months to get the six month update. How do I contact for queries? The email id of the CISDM hedge fund database point of contact is: cisdm@isenberg.umass.edu How many years data does the database contain? The database includes data for Hedge Funds since 1994. This is the oldest database. How much does it cost to get the CISDM Hedge Fund Database? CISDM database can be purchased by students/university/colleges by paying the following amounts: Individual purchase only (Student/professor/etc.): $1,500.00, a onetime download. University/College only (Multi Users): $4,000.00, a onetime download. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.