Twitter for Good Our philanthropic mission is to harness the positive power of Twitter to make the world a better place. We embrace this goal through civic engagement and volunteerism as well as content and data partnerships with NGOs and charities around the world. Our company embraces this mission by focusing our support where we can make the greatest impact. Download We support organizations that tackle online safety issues such as bullying, abuse, gender-based harassment, and hateful conduct. We also partner with organizations to promote media literacy and digital citizenship for youth. Learn more The need for media literacy is now greater than ever. We have been working on programs aimed at empowering our users to build their critical thinking and connecting them to resources in order to give them control over their online experience. Learn more Freedom of expression and civil liberties We support organizations that defend and advance internet rights and freedom of Expression. These partner organizations include human rights defenders, journalism NGOs, civil liberties advocates and other public interest groups. Learn more We believe that all communities should have affordable access to the internet. That’s why we work closely with NGOs and charities around the world to enable them to share their mission on Twitter and to showcase the benefits of internet access through the compelling work these NGOs do in their communities. Learn more We support equality and universal acceptance for all people. As part of this commitment we work with organizations to ensure equal opportunities in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) and computer science programs for women and underrepresented minorities of all ages. Learn more We are active global citizens. When emergencies or natural disasters strike, we offer tools and programs that support communication between victims, first responders, and humanitarian relief efforts. Learn more The philanthropic efforts of our Twitter employees around the globe help cultivate understanding, equality, and opportunity in our communities. We work with nonprofits all over the world to help them with best practices to develop a more effective and engaging presence on Twitter. In San Francisco, the @NeighborNest, located directly across the street from Twitter HQ, provides a family-friendly learning center for the local community. Learn more In Dublin, the #ImpactNest provides space and support for social innovation startups. Learn more Several times a year, our employees participate in a global day of service called #TwitterForGood Day. We partner with nonprofit organizations and spend the day helping them with their service to our local communities. Learn more See our full list of SF partner organizations. Download Download Download Highlighting our social good initiatives in San Francisco, and around the world. © 2019 Twitter, Inc. By using Twitter’s services you agree to our Cookies Use. We use cookies for purposes including analytics, personalisation, and ads.