Boss Neil Warnock is unhappy at the late return from Curacao duty of midfielder Leandro Bacuna as Cardiff prepare for Friday's trip to Derby. Elis, Danny and Iwan discuss whether Newport County can keep hold of Michael Flynn. Rugby - Wales International Football - Wales international Pro14 Glamorgan Cricket Rhys Priestland believes fly-halves Dan Biggar and Rhys Patchell will work well together for Wales at the World Cup. National League; Sat, 14 Sept, 17:20 BST CCD2; 16-19 Sep, 10:30 BST Catch up with the latest news and talking points in Welsh rugby and beyond. Download the latest Radio Wales Sport podcasts Catch up with Scrum V highlights Rob Phillips fields listeners' views on the day's sport. David Johnson once almost played for Wales but now his rising Under-21 star son Brennan is tipped to make the senior bow his father never managed. Ryan Giggs' Wales have work to do to reach Euro 2020, but they are looking ahead with optimism after back-to-back victories. Glamorgan won the County Championship for the second time 50 years ago and their success hinged on two games arguably as dramatic as any the England team have played this summer. Find out who's in the England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales squads for the Rugby World Cup in Japan. Jay Quinn explains how a retired pro-surfer from New Zealand goes from living in the back of a van to the brink of representing GB at the Olympics. BBC Sport will bring you live radio commentary on every Rugby World Cup match, with comprehensive coverage on the BBC Sport website. In his latest BBC Sport column, Wales centre Hadleigh Parkes talks World Cup dreams, sushi and his search for a new room-mate in Japan. Flanker James Davies is the Olympic sevens silver medallist from Wales preparing for his first Rugby World Cup with brother Jonathan. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you 'England will plan racism response' F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France Bayliss reflects on time with England I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad