A blended master of public health degree is offered at the University of Massachusetts Medical School campus in Worcester. This degree is granted through and accredited by the School of Public Health and Health Sciences at the University of Massachusetts in Amherst. The courses are taught in Worcester by faculty from both campuses, as well as offered online with the Public Health Practice Program. There are 2 different criteria for admissions to the program. Prospective students need to meet either one of these, not both: Criteria 1: Criteria 2: These minimum requirements cannot be waived. For international applicants or those U.S. citizens who completed their education internationally, the bachelor's degree must be evaluated as equivalent to a four-year degree from the U.S. We consider applications twice a year: View the online application. Application Deadlines and Timeline Be sure to choose the "MPH Program in Worcester" in the program section of the application to ensure the application goes to the correct department. Required Materials All application materials not submitted with the online application should be sent to: 534 Goodell Building University of Massachusetts 140 Hicks Way Amherst Ma 01003-9333 Fax: 413-577-0010 Email: gradadm@grad.umass.edu GRE/TOEFL Waivers The program will waive the GRE for students who meet one of the following: If you have questions about the GRE waiver, please contact the department. The TOEFL can be waived in the following circumstances: Prospective Students are allowed to take MPH-Worcester Blended program courses prior to submitting their application. Prospective students may take non-degree program courses for the following reasons: Prospective students can take up to 4 courses as a non-degree student and as long as they earn a B or better in each course, the course/s will transfer into the MPH degree once they have been admitted. Please note that taking non-degree courses does not guarantee admissions. Enrollment for non-degree students opens approximately one month prior to the semester start date. Prospective non-degree students should contact the program office at phonline@schoolph.umass.edu or 413-545-4530 for information and instructions on how to enroll. Summer 2019 enrollment is now open. You can preview courses here. Please contact the department for enrollment instructions. Fall 2019 enrollment will open on July 1st. You can preview courses here. All students, regardless of location, pay the same tuition and fees. Current tuition for taking a course in the online format is: $622.00 per credit Current tuition for taking a campus-based (UMass Worcester Medical School) is: $601.00 per credit Current fees are: Download the full curriculum. Biostats 540 Introductory Biostatistics Principles of statistics applied to analysis of biological and health data, evaluation of public health and clinical programs, and estimation of the impact of environmental exposures. Students will gain a better understanding of the theory and application of statistical procedures commonly used in medical research. HPP 620 Introduction to the US Healthcare System Introduction to the philosophy, nature, and scope of public health and health organizations; administration and organization of governmental health programs, economic, and political forces and their effects on health services. EPI 630 Principles of Epidemiology An epidemiologic perspective of health is introduced which includes methods for describing the patterns of illness in human populations and research designs for investigating disease etiology. Class examples illustrate a wide range of contemporary health problems. Students develop skills in reading health-related literature and insights into the analysis and interpretation of data pertaining to current issues in public health. HPP 601 Application of Social and Behavioral Theories in Public Health Interventions This course will analyze methods and approaches used in community health development, health education, and health promotion. Community and family dimensions of health education will be reviewed. Types of research methods leading to community action will be explored. EHS 565 Environmental Health Practices This course will introduce students to the complex field of environmental health and to important features of the physical, chemical, biological, and global environments that affect the health and well-being of communities. The course will cover traditional areas of concern, such as air and water pollution and hazardous waste, as well as emerging and contemporary problems relating to the global environment. Students will learn about methods for and approaches to the assessment, prevention, and control of environmental health problems. Elective courses (7 courses or 21 credits): These are a sample of the elective courses. This list is not all-inclusive and may not reflect new courses added. If the department offers a course that is not on this list, it will still count as an elective and may be used toward the completion of the degree. (As long as the course is numbered 500 or above. Any course with a number less than 500 is undergraduate-level and may not be used as credit for a graduate degree.) This is where you can personalize the MPH to your specific interests. Students in the Worcester campus MPH program have three options for meeting the requirements for the 3-credit PUBHLTH 696 D Culminating Experience. Students may not register for Culminating Experience until they have completed 33 credits and receive written approval on the topic from the faculty director in charge of the chosen option. Dr. Coghlin-Strom will be the faculty advisor for Options 1 and 2; Dr. Bigelow will be the faculty advisor for Option 3. Option 1 is the completion of a comprehensive literature review and analysis of a public health or health care topic. Topics may include policy analysis, reimbursement analysis, political analysis, an historical investigation, an exploration of an emerging technology, an ethical issue, a health care management issue, etc. After having the topic approved, students conduct an extensive literature search, including 15–20 articles or book chapters, and write a 15–20-page review and analysis of the topic. The paper must follow the format of published review articles in the field chosen by the student. Pre-requisites: 540, 565, 601, 620, 630, and completion of a total of 33 credits. Option 2 is the completion of a consulting-type project based in a public health or health care institution or agency. Topics may include program development, program assessment, quality improvement, strategic planning, policy development, and/or implementation, etc. The student is expected to gather information from either primary or secondary sources, assess the data, and present the analysis and recommendations. Students choosing this option are required to identify a company, clinic, agency, or other health-care entity with which they are familiar. Students conduct the project using data sources, interviews, surveys, or focus groups. Publicly available data may used, including data that is available through government and nonprofit websites. The finished project should include a literature review of 5–10 papers and a 10–15-page formal report or a comprehensive PowerPoint presentation that includes recommendations and a conclusion. Pre-requisites: 540, 565, 601, 620, 630, and completion of a total of 33 credits. Option 3 is the completion of a 3-credit epidemiology research project that demonstrates the student’s ability to apply public health theories and principles to investigate a current public health issue. The student is expected to engage in all phases of research including: formulation of the research questions, study design, data collection, data entry, statistical analysis, results interpretation, and report writing. Types of acceptable projects include secondary analysis of an existing data set, primary data collection and analysis, or development and pilot testing of a public health or health care intervention. Students are required to identify a research advisor who is an MPH faculty member, UMMS faculty member, or other professional approved by the Worcester campus director. The finished product is a fully-referenced 5–10-page report that includes a literature review, study methodology, project limitations, results, and discussion. Prerequisites: 540, 565, 601, 620, 630, 632, 640, 691, and completion of a total of 33 credits. Please contact the Worcester campus MPH program director if you have questions regarding the options for the Culminating Experience requirement: cbigelow@schoolph.umass.edu Option 3 Jackie.Coghlin-Strom@umassmed.edu Options 1 and 2 Please contact Linda Hollis for questions regarding registration for the Culminating Experience: Linda.Hollis@umassmed.edu Are you looking for funding opportunities? Please download this comprehensive list of Public Health Scholarships. Online Master of Public Health Degree Programs 715 North Pleasant St., Arnold House Room 101 University of Massachusetts Amherst, MA 01003 phone: (413) 545-4530 | (413) 545-4550 phonline@schoolph.umass.edu ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact