Jump to navigation Isenberg's calendar of events helps to refine its academic offerings, expand its facilities, embrace state-of-the-art teaching technologies, build a robust alumni network, hire expert faculty, and prepare students for leadership in the business world. Please use the calendars on the right if you are looking for a specific event or program. Join host Lara Curtis, Program Information Specialist, and Mike Famighette, Program Director, to learn more about Isenberg’s residential, On-Campus MBA program. The session will cover FAQ’s about the admissions process, curriculum overview, and the Isenberg MBA fellowship. Register today! The Isenberg Club Fair is sponsored by the Undergraduate Programs Office and will be held in the Business Innovation Hub from 4:45pm - 6:12pm on Thursday, September 12. Stop by to meet representatives from one of Isenberg's many student run clubs. The Isenberg School’s Department of Hospitality & Tourism Management (HTM) is excited to invite you to our Fall Alumni Reception in Boston! This incredible event provides the opportunity to hear from our HTM Department Chair, Dr. Muzaffer “Muzzo” Uysal about excited HTM news and gives you the chance to catch up with fellow HTM & Isenberg Alums! Register here. $30 for Isenberg Alumni and Guests $25 for HTM Alumni Registration price includes food and drinks. Have a venture idea? Looking to learn more about entrepreneurship at UMass? Startup Bootcamp: Entrepreneurship 101 is for you! These interactive sessions, led by entrepreneurship experts, are designed to provide an introduction to the world of startups and innovation. Questions? Contact Carly Forcade. Welcome back! Stop by for some Atkins donuts and conversation about Isenberg's Diversity and Inclusion initiatives. Welcome back! Stop by for some Atkins donuts and conversation about Isenberg's Diversity and Inclusion initiatives. Join host Dylan Curcio, Program Information Specialist, to learn more about Isenberg’s Masters of Science in Accounting program. The information session will cover FAQ’s about the admissions process and curriculum overview. Register today! Have an idea for a startup? Could your research translate to the market? Students, faculty and staff of all academic disciplines who have an interest in starting a new business are encouraged to attend. This 90-minute workshop will cover the opportunities and challenges involved with getting a new venture up and running. Questions? Contact Carly Forcade. A list of participating firms is below: Join us for an evening of ecosystem resource sharing, pitching and networking. Students, faculty and staff of all academic disciplines who are interested in innovation and entrepreneurship are encouraged to attend. Register here. Interested in giving a pitch of your area or resource? Want to table or bring promotional materials? Contact Molly O'Mara. Students of all majors are encouraged to attend! Join host Dylan Curcio, Program Information Specialist, to learn more about Isenberg’s Online Accounting Transitions program. The information session will cover FAQ’s about the admissions process and curriculum overview. Register today! Marketing ProSeminar for Ph.D. Class 892F Ajay Satpute, Northeastern 10:30am - 11:00am Room 111 11:00am - 12:00pm Room 112 You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.