Jump to navigation Operations and Information Management is for problem-solvers who love to learn about how business processes can be better managed and enhanced for greater efficiency. The department faculty teach the courses that comprise the BBA in Operations & Information Management, courses in our MBA programs and doctoral programs. Operations managers and business analysts are central to any team—they make businesses efficient and effective, base their decisions on sound, empirical evidence, and develop a holistic understanding of how a business functions. The OIM curriculum prepares students to understand all facets of building and running a business. Among other topics, you’ll learn about: Students can also select a concentration track option in integrated operations and information management, information systems, or supply chain management. Isenberg’s OIM department courses provide exposure to the real-world challenges you’ll face on the job so you’ll be ready to tackle any complex issue thrown your way. Learn Industry-Leading Applications - OIM majors get hands-on experience with critical tools that represent best-in-class enterprise systems and business intelligence applications Explore the Supply Chain - In our Supply Chain Management course, students work in teams to explore the supply chain within a specific industr Tour Local Companies - OIM majors can tour one to two companies each semester via trips organized by the Operations & Information (O&I) Club and sponsored by the OIM department. OIM graduates are troubleshooters, planners, mappers, taskmasters, and they know their data. Our degree program at Isenberg can prepare you to: Isenberg offers freedom without compromise – a flexible learning environment that delivers a superior education online with the same curriculum as our on-campus program. Our online students are working professionals, parents and community members who live full lives and have demanding, often fluctuating schedules week to week. They want a superior education on their terms. No campus visits are required, as students can complete the entire degree online from anywhere in the world. To meet the graduation requirements for a BBA degree, every Operations Information Management major must complete the following coursework: ACADEMIC ADVISING Our advisors are experts with over ten years of experience guiding students through online education. They are here to assist you with any questions you may have about your studies, from finishing your degree to taking stand-alone classes that complement your career. PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS There are many OIM-related organizations students can turn to for learning and networking such as the INFORMS, Association for Information Systems, Council of Supply Chain Management, APICS, The Project Management Institute Research in Management Science is diverse and offers an exciting opportunity to discover and enhance business processes using data analytics, statistics methods, mathematical modeling and optimization methodology. Isenberg’s PhD in Management Science is a full-time, residential program designed to train students in operations management, logistics and transportation. Isenberg faculty conduct research at the forefront of their disciplines and are involved in projects that are nationally and internationally funded by agencies such as the National Science Foundation. In our program, students conduct novel research in such areas as supply chain management, manufacturing and service operations management, transportation and logistics, retail analytics, airline management, portfolio management, sustainable operations, humanitarian logistics and healthcare, quality management, or disruption and business continuity management, to name a few. Students are admitted for Fall semesters and receive an assistantship that is continued over four academic years (including their first three summers) subject to good academic standing and progress. Students complete forty-five credits of course work, in addition to a 3-credit teaching course. YEAR 1: Coursework and Core Exam YEAR 2: Coursework and Comprehensive Exam. YEAR 3: Development of dissertation proposal and Teaching YEAR 4-5: Dissertation research, teaching and dissertation final defense. The PhD program in Information Systems (IS) is designed for individuals who are interested in understanding and researching behavioral and strategic issues in the dynamically changing field of information systems. Our program offers access to a unique group of world-class faculty who conduct research in the following areas: Students generally complete a PhD in Information Systems within 4-5 years, beginning their studies in the fall semester. Coursework requirements include 45 credits, with core courses in information Systems and Research Methods taken before minor and elective courses. The program includes a first year core exam and summer paper; a comprehensive examination generally taken after completing the second year; a 3-course teaching requirement and a dissertation.  YEAR 1: Coursework, including core courses; Core exam and summer paper YEAR 2: Coursework, including core courses, research electives and minor area courses; Comprehensive exam YEAR 3: Development of dissertation proposal; Teaching; Additional coursework as needed; YEAR 4-5: Dissertation; Teaching You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.