Pamela Aselton Dr. Aselton's scholarship currently focuses on college health topics, prescription drug epidemiology, and qualitative online interviewing. You can access her ResearchGate profile here. Terrie Black Dr. Black's research interests include rehabilitation nursing, continuum of care, prevention of readmissions, healthcare quality, healthcare policy, and payment systems. Carrie-Ellen Briere Dr. Briere's research is focused on the protection and promotion of breastfeeding by investigating the bioactive components of human milk. She is specifically interested in the impact of cells with stem-like potential, their interactions with other components of milk and the infant GI tract, and their role in infant health. Dr. Briere's primary focus is on preterm infants and the importance of milk cells with a clinical focus on milk handling and delivery factors which influence the bio-availability of milk components. Genevieve Chandler Dr. Chandler’s research is conducted in collaboration with adolescents, young adults and adults, studying the effects of Adverse Childhood Experiences, Trauma Informed Care and Resilience, and in particular the Chandler ABCS of Resilience Intervention. Her clinical expertise is in mental health where she studies coercive practices of restraints and seclusion and the hope of recovery. Her research is based on her values as seen through a narrative lens of strength, solution-focus emphasizing the question what works, rather than what is wrong. Jeungok Choi Dr. Choi has a long-term research objective of developing, implementing, and disseminating mobile-based applicatons to improve older adults' self-management of chronic health problems. Kim Dion Dr. Dion is a qualitiative researcher with a focus on substance use disorder, harm reduction, injection drug use, and the nurse/patient relationship. Emma Dundon Dr. Dundon is interested in the transition to college for students living with Type 1 Diabetes, motivational interventions for behavior change, and adolescent depression. Heather Hamilton Dr. Hamilton's area of scholarship is cardiovascular research methods and technology using community-based participatory research to deliver the highest level of care to the African-American community. Her passion is to develop and discover new ways to increase self-care among African-American heart failure patients using technology. Elizabeth Henneman Dr. Henneman’s research interests include the identification of medical errors and adverse events by healthcare clinicians; model-driven process guidance to improve the safety and efficiency of blood transfusion; the impact of interruptions on patient identification and medical errors, and nurse behaviors and visual scanning patterns during routine, error prone processes. MaryAnn Hogan MaryAnn Hogan’s research interests are clinical competence, nurse decision-making, patient safety, and simulation in nursing education. Maeve Howett Dr. Howett’s research and clinical expertise is inter-disciplinary, focusing on breastfeeding and early childhood exposures. She is particularly interested in the at-risk mother-infant dyad made vulnerable by poverty, early childhood malnutrition, and toxicant exposures. Cynthia S. Jacelon Dr. Jacelon’s research explores the dignity, function, and sense of control of elders with chronic health problems. She wants to know how these concepts are related to maintaining health and independence and how healthcare providers can enhance an elder's dignity and sense of control. Karen A. Kalmakis Dr. Kalmakis’s areas of research interest are a) the persistent neurobiological stress response following exposure to adverse childhood experiences (ACE), b) self-management of stress to reduce symptoms of fatigue, c) screening for ACE among adult primary care patients and translating research to practice, and d) enhancing health delvery for cildren in foster care. Erin Lamoureux Dr. Lamoureux's research interests are healthy aging and teaching strategies and Generation Z students. Raeann LeBlanc Dr. LeBlanc's reasearch focuses on a) Developing community-based social capital and supports to maintain health care at home among persons living with complex chronic health care needs, and b) Understanding how social networks, social support, dignity and sense of control influence the complex needs of older adults managing multiple chronic conditions and health in the community. Maud Low Assistant Professor Low is investigating the meaning nurses place on and take from nurse peer relationships. Yeonsik Noh Dr. Noh's research interests include: a) personalized wearable medical and healthcare electronics, b) body sensor networks and communication, c) self/auto health care management, and d) design of next generation health care systems and strategy. Mary Paterno Dr. Paterno is interested in innovative community and clinical solutions to improve perinatal, postpartum, and contraceptive care for vulnerable women. Her goal is to promote healthy and supportive experiences that will lead to positive family building and successful transition to the mothering role. As a certified nurse-midwife, her research is enhanced by her extensive clinical experience in reproductive health. Kalpana Poudel-Tandukar Dr. Poudel Tandukar’s research interests lie in the area of behavioral and social science research on the causes and solutions to health disparity and social injustice among vulnerable populations, including immigrants and HIV-infected populations. She is interested in evidence-based analysis on various clinical, socio-cultural, behavioral, and environmental determinants of infectious and chronic diseases using multiple levels of analysis including quantitative statistical analysis. She is interested in applied and translational research on the development, testing, adaptation, and delivery of interventions to reduce disparities using community based participatory approaches. Presently, she is studying the role of micronutrients on inflammation and mental health outcomes of HIV-infected persons and designing mental health interventions for the immigrant population. Rachel Walker Dr. Rachel Walker is an oncology nurse scientist, gerontologist, and the first nurse to be named an official Invention Ambassador for the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). She is an Associate Director of the UMASS Institute for Applied Life Sciences’ Center for Personalized Health Monitoring, and serves on the American Nurses Association’s Innovation Advisory Board. Her team’s research focuses primarily on supportive care and technology to promote dignity, capability, and a sense of well-being, including sexual well-being, in the context of cancer and symptom-related disability. Her methods include participatory and qualitative approaches, mixed methods, eyetracking research, microfluidics and point-of-care technologies, mHealth strategies, and theory-guided behavioral intervention research. She has active research collaborations with experts who span a wide range of disciplines, including chemistry, computer science, chemical engineering, kinesiology, occupational therapy, molecular biology, psychological and brain sciences, geospatial information systems, public health, medicine, and diversity sciences. The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master’s degree program in nursing and Doctor of Nursing Practice degree program at the University of Massachusetts Amherst College of Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The baccalaureate degree program is fully approved by the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Nursing. The University of Massachusetts Amherst is accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE; formerly the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges).     