We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Makes HaHa, Entrepreneur, Life Changer, Hashtag Roundup CEO @HashtagRoundup; Instagram: bigmacher01; I was on #LaughsTV; love #games You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDo Complain about not being able to do a school report because the Encylopedia is being used by someone else Yes!!! Best excuse!pic.twitter.com/4mrQVDm9aG Eat paint chips. Or, because the library is closed. Skip school and/or class and not get caught. Auto absence phone call/email to parents.  Yess... and only having one volume/ letter at home. So embarrassing..... Complain about not being able to use the phone/internet because some one else is on the internet/phone, also see ding/recieving a fax Yeah, "Someone is hogging Wiki" doesn't cut it. Hahaha you're right. we cant do that because we cant complain without you boomers getting mad at us Spell, use punctuation, do math without a computer. Better excuse it "didnt save" or "my [device] does while i was doing it"  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.