The opposition in Zimbabwe says things are worse than under former leader Robert Mugabe - it it right? The opposition in Zimbabwe says things are worse than under former leader Robert Mugabe - it it right? Forest fires are raging in many parts of the world but are there more than ever? Countries are struggling to contain the incurable disease, which is threatening the livelihoods of pig farmers Nigeria says more people than ever are paying tax - but government revenues are not growing The US military has been in Afghanistan since 2001 - how much has it cost? Plastic carrier bags were made illegal, so how has the government enforced the ban? The outbreak shows no signs of abating, so why is the roll-out of a second vaccine proving contentious? The opposition in Zimbabwe says things are worse than under former leader Robert Mugabe - it it right? Forest fires are raging in many parts of the world but are there more than ever? Countries are struggling to contain the incurable disease, which is threatening the livelihoods of pig farmers Nigeria says more people than ever are paying tax - but government revenues are not growing The US military has been in Afghanistan since 2001 - how much has it cost? Plastic carrier bags were made illegal, so how has the government enforced the ban? The outbreak shows no signs of abating, so why is the roll-out of a second vaccine proving contentious? Forest fires are raging in many parts of the world but are there more than ever? Countries are struggling to contain the incurable disease, which is threatening the livelihoods of pig farmers Nigeria says more people than ever are paying tax - but government revenues are not growing The number of people convicted for rape has fallen to its lowest level since records began a decade ago. Reality Check BBC News The latest crime figures show rises in both murder and sexual offences over the past year Reality Check team BBC News The government has published a report setting out the risks of a no-deal Brexit. How is it preparing? Rachel Schraer BBC Reality Check Rape victims in England and Wales are being asked to hand their phones to police as evidence. Chris Morris Reality Check correspondent, BBC News Has there been any progress in the UK's talks in Brussels since Boris Johnson became prime minister? Tom Edgington BBC Reality Check The UK says it want to replicate the EU's trade agreements "as far as possible". Reality Check team BBC News The number of migrants crossing the English Channel is increasing, but who is responsible for them? Reality Check team BBC News Some UK citizens who live in the EU will be ineligible for free NHS treatment, if there is no deal. Reality Check team BBC News Jeremy Corbyn says workers are getting a much smaller share of national income than they used to. Is he right? Tom Edgington BBC Reality Check Labour says it will do all it can to stop a no-deal Brexit. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News