Jump to navigation The Isenberg Online MBA is the perfect program for professionals looking to be leaders in their industry. Combining the quality curriculum of our on-campus Masters of Business Administration program with the flexibility of the online platform, the Online MBA provides quality learning tailored to the student's schedule and timetable. Participants can choose to complete their MBA 100% online, or, if they are located in the Massachusetts area, can take classes online and in-person at one of our three satellite campus locations: Springfield, Shrewsbury, and Boston. Join the more than 1200 professionals, many with more than 10 years work experience, currently enrolled in the program. Get started today. We offer an unparalleled educational experience—superior instruction from expert faculty, an innovative, flexible learning format, and a strong commitment to graduating students who value community, collaboration, passion and pride  Our online students come from all 50 states  Offering online classes for over 10 YEARS Learn more     The classroom is virtual. The connections are real. Join us online or at a satellite Massachusetts campus. Courses have the same curriculum and accomplished faculty as residential classes—the difference lies in the freedom and convenience that the online and satellite environments offer our students. The Isenberg MBA offers many different learning opportunities. You can choose to complete your MBA 100% online, or if you are in the Massachusetts area, you can choose to take classes online and in-person at one of our three satellite campus locations. With innovative technology and no residential requirement, you can complete your degree 100% online anywhere—from early mornings at your kitchen table, to late nights at your office, to stolen moments during an international business trip. We've been perfecting online education for over a decade, and offer an exceptional education that fits the needs of working professionals. Isenberg’s Online MBA with in-person option offers the best of both worlds—flexible online classes and face-to-face exposure to material, faculty and colleagues. Choose between taking classes online and in-person at one of our satellite campus locations in Massachusetts: Boston, Shrewsbury, or Springfield. With our flexible options, you can take one class online while taking a second class at a satellite location. The choice is yours! For the past 2.5 years, I have spent a great deal of time reading, reviewing, testing and interacting online with some of the brightest, most diverse group of colleagues I have ever experienced. Our classes had physicians, engineers, company presidents, accountants and members of all branches of the military. The Isenberg experience was both challenging and enriching. Isenberg MBA Student Networks provide many opportunities for students to tailor their MBA experience. Student organizations open the doors to relationships, leadership development, and professional growth. The Graduate Business Association (GBA) drives student-led initiatives with the goal of improving communication and culture in the Isenberg MBA. Adapting to the changing needs of each incoming class, the GBA is able to lead pioneering initiatives that inclusively benefit all students as well as provide opportunities for networking, career enrichment and real-world experience. During the year, there are many on-campus opportunities to participate in GBA-sponsored professional development and social activities. MBA Women International (MBAWI) is a global non-profit organization dedicated to empowering women MBAs. The Isenberg chapter is affiliated with the larger national organization, including professional chapters in metropolitan areas such as Boston and New York. Our chapter strives to provide MBA students with opportunities for networking both locally and on a national scale. We also offer social events and we participate in local Pioneer Valley philanthropies. Net Impact (NI) is an international network of leaders dedicated to using the power of business to make a positive net social, environmental and economic impact. The mission of NI, and the UMass Amherst Chapter, is to inspire, educate and equip individuals to use the power of business to create a more socially and environmentally sustainable world. Isenberg students represent the NI mission on boards of local non-profits, at national conferences, and through campus initiatives. Every On-Campus and Online MBA graduate can attend the commencement events offered at UMass. The Oath Ceremony is held the night before graduation. Graduating students, families, and alumni are welcome to attend! Following the Oath Ceremony, celebrate with families, alumni, staff and faculty of Isenberg. Look for more information coming this Spring. For more info please visit www.mbaoath.org. On-Campus and Online MBA graduates are invited to attend the UMass Graduate Commencement Ceremony. Please join us! You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.