Stocks have outperformed bonds by 7.50 percentage points during the last 20 trading days. This is close to the strongest performance for stocks relative to bonds in the past two years and indicates investors are rotating into stocks from the relative safety of bonds. Last changed Sep 9 from a Greed rating Updated Sep 12 at 1:22pm During the last five trading days, volume in put options has lagged volume in call options by 39.60% as investors make bullish bets in their portfolios. This is among the lowest levels of put buying seen during the last two years, indicating extreme greed on the part of investors. Last changed Sep 9 from a Neutral rating Updated Sep 12 at 1:21pm The S&P 500 is 3.87% above its 125-day average. This is further above the average than has been typical during the last two years and rapid increases like this often indicate extreme greed. Last changed Sep 11 from a Greed rating Updated Sep 12 at 1:18pm The McClellan Volume Summation Index measures advancing and declining volume on the NYSE. During the last month, approximately 20.20% more of each day's volume has traded in advancing issues than in declining issues, pushing this indicator towards the upper end of its range for the last two years. Last changed Sep 11 from a Neutral rating Updated Sep 12 at 1:21pm The CBOE Volatility Index (VIX) is at 14.22. This is a neutral reading and indicates that market risks appear low. Last changed Aug 15 from a Fear rating Updated Sep 12 at 1:18pm The number of stocks hitting 52-week highs exceeds the number hitting lows but is at the lower end of its range, indicating fear. Last changed Sep 4 from an Extreme Fear rating Updated Sep 12 at 1:21pm Investors in low quality junk bonds are accepting 1.87 percentage points in additional yield over safer investment grade corporate bonds. While this spread is historically low, it is elevated compared to recent levels and suggests that investors are becoming more risk averse. Last changed Sep 6 from an Extreme Fear rating Updated Sep 12 at 1:18pm Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: © 2019 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc.2019. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2019 and/or its affiliates. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.