Associate Director Becky Lockwood comments that maintaining civil rights for transgender residents will not increase the risk of sexual assault in public bathrooms. Read more Contacting police or telling family members right away is not the norm, according to those who work with victims of sexual assault and violence. Read full article. The University of Massachusetts runs training programs for faculty, staff, graduate and undergraduate students to help them understand what sexual harassment is. Read full article. In September, graduate students representing women in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math at the University of Massachusetts Amherst issued a report about abuse, harassment and sexual misconduct. Called "Broken Silence: Student Accounts of Sexual Violence in STEM," the report provided accounts -- most anonymous -- from women who said they experienced harassment or abuse either at the university or in other workplaces or academic settings. Numbers matter, says Anne Hedgepeth, interim vice president of public policy and government relations for the American Association of University Women. Read full article. Hopkins Academy Gender Equity Task Force began in spring 2017 to help students address issues of sexism in the community and develop an action plan to make our community a safer and more equitable space. It is a student driven task force which is essential to the school's belief that students need to learn how to lead, organize and make changes in society. Rosa Clemente, an internationally recognized community activist, spoke at the Student Union Ballroom to kick off the celebrations. Read more: UMass Amherst has been named the No. 9 safest campus in the country by College magazine. “The Community Education Program of CWC provides in person, evidence based training and prevention education on campus to over 1,500 campus members annually,” says Becky Lockwood, one of the center's Associate Directors (College magazine, 12/18/17). Read More Belchertown police have received a $242,537 grant to improve their response to sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence and stalking. The Belchertown police department has received a federal grant to partner with CWC and Northampton Police to provide better resources to victims of abuse.  Read full article. New Africa House, 180 Infirmary Way, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003 Phone: (413) 545-0883 - Email: cwc@umass.edu - 24-Crisis Hotline (Sexual Assault / Rape): (413) 545-0800/Toll Free (888) 337-0800 ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact