We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes As My Blind Ninja Master Used To Say, The Keenest Eye Is That Which Looks Inwards. Talkative Introvert. You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. Run around Toys R Us #ThingsTodaysKidsCantDopic.twitter.com/FcFGhb9qg5 TOO SOON  That was so fun! So much In the U. S. I’m about 8-10minutes away from one. Worthy! pic.twitter.com/Js36KMjwZ3 Lol They can in Canada. You know they’re slowly going back in business... right? Gone but not forgotten I could a few years ago rip *Laughs in Canadian* ..anymore That was the best place to have fun my younger sister still goes DONT REMIND ME RIP TOYS R US AHH i used to get toys there all the time.. i remember going a while back and getting Barbie dolls. i was so excited.  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.