The UMass SPHHS launched our fully online graduate certificate in global health in the fall of 2015. The certificate is aimed at working public health professionals, interested in moving their focus to the international public health stage. The certificate is one of the few that does not require students to be admitted to a full MPH or PhD program. It is open to any working professional needing to improve their knowledge of issues and policies in global public health.  Program Highlights:  Bachelor's degree with a 3.0 GPA The graduate certificate in global health is open to: Application Application checklist and timeline Prospective students need to submit the following: Please submit all application materials, by either mail or fax to: Lori Peterson 101 Arnold House 715 N. Pleasant St. University of Massachusetts Amherst Amherst Ma 01003 413-545-0501 (Fax) phonline@schoolph.umass.edu The Graduate Certificate programs office schedules regular information sessions. We have information sessions scheduled, where you can hear more details about each of our certificates.  The session is hosted in Zoom. You can download Zoom, free, or join the meeting here. If you have already submitted an application and you wish to know if it is complete or check on its status, please call the department at 413-545-4530  There are two required courses and three electives. Students are allowed to choose which three electives and may choose to complete a 200-hour international practicum. Required courses: Elective Courses: Tuition for the program is $622.00 per credit. There is also a $47.00 registration fee per semester. Total cost of attendance based on two semesters is: $9424.00 Due to the non-degree nature of the certificate program, financial aid may be limited and may not include federal student loans. Should a graduate certificate student subsequently apply and matriculate into the UMass online MPH-PHP degree-granting program, the 15 credits will transfer into the degree upon admission. All non-degree transfer policies must be met and certificate students must meet all eligibility and admissions requirements for entrance into the full MPH program. Please visit the MPH-PHP program page for more information. Students who have been formally admitted to the online MPH can apply for admission to the GHC at any time during their program. Students who choose to do both would be concentrating in global health and should contact their advisor to discuss a course of study. Are you looking for funding opportunities? Please download this comprehensive list of public health scholarships. Online Master of Public Health Degree Programs 715 North Pleasant St., Arnold House Room 101 University of Massachusetts Amherst, MA 01003 phone: (413) 545-4530 | (413) 545-4550 phonline@schoolph.umass.edu ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact