Apply Now Apply Now Campus life is a major component of the college experience. At Summer Pre-College you'll live the life of a UMass student firsthand, from dorm living in one of the newest residence halls on campus to working out in the Rec Center to catching up with new friends over dinner at our award-winning dining commons. Plus downtown Amherst, just a short walk away, offers a host of restaurants, independent bookstores and cinemas. Summer Pre-College students stay in a freshman residence hall in the modern, fully air-conditioned Commonwealth Honors College Residential Community. Each floor is assigned two Program Assistants (PAs), experienced UMass undergrads who work as RAs during the school year. The PAs act as mentors, get participants situated on campus, lead them in various activities, and give them the scoop on Res Life. A Residence Hall Director lives in the residence hall throughout the program and is on-call at night. The Residence Hall Director is a trained member of the UMass Res Life program and offers support, guidance, and night-time supervision. Residence Hall floors are single sex, and each student is assigned a roommate. We enforce an 10:30pm nightly curfew. UMass Amherst is ranked #1 in the country for campus food by the Princeton Review! Students can choose from several dining commons and cafes on campus for meals. The University’s award-winning food service provides a variety of choices (including vegetarian and vegan options) for each meal. It’s not unusual at one meal to have a choice between sushi, pho noodles, create-your own stir-fry, pizza, a pasta bar, or the deli station. Not to mention the soft-serve sundae bar. Three meals a day are included in room & board. Students can use their meal card swipes at campus cafes as well as the dining commons. UMass Amherst Dining So much more than just going to class every day. Home to amazing universities, beautiful nature, and a diverse arts and culture scene, we're sure you'll love Amherst and the surrounding area! During your program, there will be plenty of activities to keep you engaged, informed, and supported outside the classroom. Each night, Program Assistants will run activities students are very encouraged to join. Broken down into a main event and a low-key social event, there's something for everyone to enjoy. Activity Examples (Subject to change) Weekend Excursions • Six Flags New England Theme Park • MASS MoCA • Roller skating/go-karts/bowling night Evening Events • Main Activity - karaoke, sports, outdoor movie nights, etc. • Low-key Activity - tabletop/video game tournaments, craft nights Social and Academic Workshops College admissions and finaces, SAT workshops, etc. All UMass Amherst residence halls are locked 24 hours per day, and campus is patrolled 24/7 by the UMass Police Department. Access to the Summer Pre-College residence hall is restricted to Summer Pre-College students and staff only by use of an electronic key. The residence hall security desk is manned from 5pm – 11pm Monday – Thursday, and 5pm – 12am on Fridays and Saturdays. Bed checks are performed nightly after curfew by our Program Assistants. UMass Summer Programs is hosted by Continuing & Professional Education. Our programs range from college-level courses for high school students to Intensive English programs for adult learners. summerprograms@umass.edu UMass Summer Programs 408 Goodell 140 Hicks Way Amherst, MA 01003 413-577-2112 summerprograms@umass.edu Facebook Twitter ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact