Would you like to impact College of Nursing students? Mary A. Maher founded the College of Nursing, and she grew the UMass Nursing program by leaps and bounds. She was our fearless leader and she introduced the state’s first public higher institution baccalaureate and graduate nursing programs at UMass. Dean Maher led by example and showed us that one person can make a difference. Today, you can create your own impact and legacy through the Mary Maher Monthly Giving Society. But why now? AACN estimates that there will be a shortage of 80,000 nurses in 2020! The need to provide a world-class nursing education is a pressing issue. Your generosity will provide students with: Why monthly giving? Join the Mary Maher Monthly Giving Society today! “I give on a monthly basis for a few reasons. First of all, I loved my years at UMass Amherst and have many fond memories! I very much value the education I received and the career opportunities for which I was well prepared. It enabled me to support my family when faced with my husband’s illness, and a subsequent period of financial loss and hardship, as well as our desire to assist our daughter with her education and wedding, all while preparing for our eventual retirement. I am not in a position to make a large donation, but by setting up monthly giving, I am able to make a more substantial contribution over time to give back to the UMass Amherst College of Nursing.” Mary Lussier-Cushing “Cooky” ‘76 How will you make an impact? Join the Mary Maher Monthly Giving Society today! If you have any questions, please contact Ben Monat, Assistant Director of Development & Stewardship at (413) 545 – 5090 or BMonat@UMass.edu. Thank you for your consideration. We would be grateful if you can join those who empower our students to receive an incredible nursing education. Little by little, a little becomes a lot. The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master’s degree program in nursing and Doctor of Nursing Practice degree program at the University of Massachusetts Amherst College of Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The baccalaureate degree program is fully approved by the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Nursing. The University of Massachusetts Amherst is accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (NECHE; formerly the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges).     