The Sports Direct boss has defended the firm's strategy, saying he has faith in High Street retail. The Sports Direct boss has defended the firm's strategy, saying he has faith in High Street retail. How big data arrived in football's big time and why it is changing the sport forever. Goalkeeper quits top flight women's football at the age of 25 to start a new career in finance. Philip Bowcock's departure after three years comes as the bookmaker shifts to growth online. Understanding women's bodies better is helping to improve their sporting performance. The five-a-side football pitch operator continues to face the fallout from an accounting scandal. Bolton Wanderers' survival is secured as Football Ventures (Whites) Limited completes its protracted takeover of the club. The Sports Direct boss has defended the firm's strategy, saying he has faith in High Street retail. How big data arrived in football's big time and why it is changing the sport forever. Goalkeeper quits top flight women's football at the age of 25 to start a new career in finance. Philip Bowcock's departure after three years comes as the bookmaker shifts to growth online. Understanding women's bodies better is helping to improve their sporting performance. The five-a-side football pitch operator continues to face the fallout from an accounting scandal. Bolton Wanderers' survival is secured as Football Ventures (Whites) Limited completes its protracted takeover of the club. How big data arrived in football's big time and why it is changing the sport forever. Goalkeeper quits top flight women's football at the age of 25 to start a new career in finance. Philip Bowcock's departure after three years comes as the bookmaker shifts to growth online. Bill Wilson Business reporter, BBC News Goalkeeper quits top flight women's football at the age of 25 to start a new career in finance. Clubs in Europe's so-called Big Five football leagues spent a record €5.5bn (£5bn) in the 2019 summer transfer window, according to analysis from Deloitte. That is an increase of €900m on the previous record - set in summer 2018; Premier League clubs spent £1.41bn in the 2019 summer transfer window, with a net spend of £575m. Net spend fell by £50m since the league’s deadline day on 8 August 2019, the lowest net spend since summer 2015; Spain's La Liga clubs spent a record €1.37bn, exceeding €1bn for the first time and more than doubling their expenditure from just two years ago; Clubs in Italy's Serie A (€1.17bn), Germany's Bundesliga (.€740m) and France's Ligue 1 (.€670m) all set new transfer records in this summer’s window; Scottish Premiership clubs spent an estimated £25m, nearly all attributable to Old Firm rivals Celtic and Rangers, as other SPFL clubs took advantage of loan deals and free transfers to enhance their squads. More "ambitious" proposals under a new planning application will be submitted, the club says. Simon Stone BBC Sport Italian champions Juventus want Serie A to schedule more league matches earlier in the day to help the club grow in Asia. Gambling Commission censures betting giant after customer spent £1.5m in three years without checks. Bill Wilson BBC business reporter Former BT Sport and Sky executive Delia Bushell has been appointed as chief executive of The Jockey Club, the largest commercial group in British horseracing. She is the first female chief executive of the group, which operates some of the biggest racing events in the UK, including the Cheltenham Festival, Randox Health Grand National and The Investec Derby Festival. She spent three years at BT Group as managing director of its TV and Sport division, overseeing BT’s Sport channels and the securing of premium sports and entertainment rights, such as the English Premier League, Uefa Champions League, Premiership Rugby, FA Cup, Moto GP and The Ashes. Prior to this, she spent 14 years at Sky in a variety of roles. She will join The Jockey Club in early September and, following a period of handover, succeed current boss Simon Bazalgette. Bill Wilson Business reporter, BBC News Nissan will be the official auto partner to City Football Group teams in the UK, US and Australia. Historic 1970s running shoes smash their expected selling price at auction in New York. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News