Developers Publish and analyze Tweets, optimize ads, and create unique customer experiences. Twitter Developer Labs is live: Learn more > Programmatically create and manage Twitter ad campaigns. Tell great stories with Twitter content. Evaluate Twitter data to inform business decisions. Create connections with conversational experiences. Below are a few examples of our Twitter API endpoints, requests, and responses. These examples use twurl—a command-line application that can be used to make authenticated requests to the Twitter platform. twurl is like curl, except that it abstracts away OAuth details once you configure it with your keys. Search Tweets published in the last 7 days. Documentation >  Create a new Twitter Ads campaign. Documentation >  Get Tweet engagement metrics. Engagement API requests take an array of Tweet IDs, an array of engagement types, and a simple description of how you want the output arranged. Here is the response from that request: Documentation >  Send a Direct Message. Documentation >  Receive a Direct Message via a webhook. Documentation >  Embed a Tweet on your website. Make a request to the oEmbed API. This returns a JSON oEmbed response. Output the HTML into your page. Documentation >  The Ads API program enables businesses to create and manage ads campaigns programmatically on Twitter. To help achieve your business goals, the Ads API provides the following suite of tools: Objective-based campaigns, Analytics, and Targeting. Example use cases: Create campaigns, analyze performance, and target audiences. Use our publisher platform tools to engage your audience with great stories from Twitter, and build on our tools to grow your business. We have a suite of tools and SDKs to bring Twitter content and features to your website, iOS and Android apps. Use TweetDeck to discover and curate content, and Twitter for Websites and Twitter Kit to easily distribute and display those Tweets in your apps. In your mobile apps, Twitter Kit makes it easy to work with the Twitter API and even integrate MoPub to grow your business around Twitter content. Example use cases: Display Tweets, discover and curate Tweets, and share your content on Twitter. Twitter data is the most comprehensive source of live, public conversation worldwide. Our REST, streaming, and Enterprise APIs enable programmatic analysis of Tweets back to the first Tweet in 2006. Whether you are building a solution for brands, one for your own team, or conducting research—our endpoints enable rich insight into audiences, market movements, emerging trends, key topics, breaking news, and much more. Example use cases: Trend detection, audience insights, and research. Twitter is the best place in the world for businesses and people to connect. Since the early days of Twitter people have used the public, live, and conversational nature of the platform to engage with businesses. Using our API platform that spans across Tweets and Direct Messages, you can create applications that enable businesses to create human- and bot-powered conversation experiences to deliver customer service, marketing, brand engagement experiences, and more. Example use cases: Chatbots and automation, customer service, and engagement. By using Twitter’s services you agree to our Cookies Use. We use cookies for purposes including analytics, personalisation, and ads. This page and certain other Twitter sites place and read third party cookies on your browser that are used for non-essential purposes including targeting of ads. Through these cookies, Google and Demandbase collect personal data about you for their own purposes. Learn more.