We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes What you need to know. Follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube. Visit our home page for the top stories of the day. You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. Meet the first black woman to own a brewery in the USpic.twitter.com/izsEQuKG5m I’m coming to see you girl, @HarlemBrewing!!! pic.twitter.com/BvUmqbpNsA Great, but why copy Heineken design when there could be immense African heritage options pic.twitter.com/4ZMhULmG8J Reparations.   Community having equity is a good strategy, but a risky one. I respect this woman. Great story I love craft beer!!! DOPE Can we get this beer in Maryland and DC? Already on your radar, @theresamccu ?  I've had Sugar Hill I like trying new beers, I hope some day it would show up at a store near me. Good luck & I am proud of you. Ms. Celeste Beatty @HarlemBrewing- I'm a Brooklyn Born Gal, & am so excited for you. I wish you the greatest of success. I would love to drink your beer, especially bc it is low in hops... I'm Diabetic. I now live in USA W. Coast. When will your beer be available to buy here?  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.