Student Affairs and Campus Life actively supports student health and well-being in collaboration with: Campus Recreation's programs, services, and facilities promote and encourage a lifelong commitment to health and wellness. Whatever your interests, take advantage of all we have to offer, including facilities, intramural sports, club sports, group fitness, personal fitness, wellness center, aquatics, and more! The Center for Counseling and Psychological Health (CCPH) can help you live a healthy, balanced life at UMass Amherst. Find out more about our programs and services. The Center for Health Promotion (CHP) is home to the BASICS program, AlcoholEdu, and support services for students in recovery. Peer Health Education and the Not Ready for Bedtime Players are part of CHP. The Center for Women and Community (CWC) offers advocacy, short term counseling and educational programs for people of all gender expressions. It is home to the Women of Color Leadership Network. The CWC's Rape Crisis Services program provides free and confidential crisis services for survivors of all gender expressions in the Hampshire County and Five College Community. Counselor/Advocates are available 24 hours, 7 days/week to provide support, information, crisis intervention, and medical and legal advocacy. 24-Hour Crisis Hotline On campus: 413-545-0800 Local long-distance: 888-337-0800 The UMass Men and Masculinities Center supports the development of healthy masculinities at UMass Amherst and beyond from male positive, multicultural, and pro-feminist perspectives. Stop by the office at 120 Thoreau, email masculinities@umass.edu or call 413-577-4MEN (4636). University Health Services (UHS) offers convenient, accredited health care and services including physical therapy, eye care and optical services, acupuncture, sports medicine, a full-service pharmacy, allergy clinic, travel medicine and women's health clinic. The University of Massachusetts Amherst Police Department operates 24 hours per day, seven days a week, providing patrol, investigative, specialized, and emergency response, as well as crime prevention and educational services. The Office of Emergency Management promotes a safe and secure environment for living, learning and working. Campus guidelines for emergency response are published in the Emergency Response Handbook; all faculty, staff, and students should be familiar with its contents.  Mindfulness Learn about and practice Mindfulness, a powerful tool to help you stay calm, focused, and on track for academic success. Exercise and recreation Facilities Include the Recreation Center, Boyden Gym, swimming pools, tennis, and handball/squash courts. Intramurals Intramural sports are organized leagues, tournaments, and sports activities that are divided into separate skill levels for all students, faculty, and staff to enjoy. Personal fitness Students, faculty, staff, and alumni can train under supervision of certified trainers.  Active Minds UMass Amherst's chapter of this national student-run mental health education and advocacy group. Not Ready for Bedtime Players UMass Amherst’s award-winning sex education theatre troupe. Peer Health Education is a six-credit, one-year internship open to undergrads from all majors. Shaha is a diversity peer education troupe at UMass Amherst. UMass Amherst MRC Train in emergency preparation and response, and assist the community and campus in case of emergency. ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact