Danny Cipriani claims he would have had to "turn water into wine" to convince England coach Eddie Jones to take him to the Rugby World Cup. BBC Sport will bring you live radio commentary on every Rugby World Cup match, with comprehensive coverage on the BBC Sport website. Can Jonathan Davies and Eddie Butler give you goosebumps in this ASMR video from Scrum V? Mike Brown believes he is England's best full-back despite being left out of head coach Eddie Jones' Rugby World Cup squad. Ugo Monye, Chris Jones and Danny Care are together for one last time before the World Cup begins. Could England clinch it? Are Fiji going to undo Wales? 2019 Rugby World Cup Japan (20 Sept-2 Nov) Wales coach Warren Gatland laments their second-half discipline as Ireland "choked" them after the break in their final World Cup warm-up. The inside story of England's past four Rugby World Cup campaigns, from victory in 2003 to pool-stage defeat in 2015, from the men who were there. Owen Farrell or George Ford at fly-half? Tom Curry, Sam Underhill or Mark Wilson as flankers? Pick your England team to face Tonga in Sapporo. Defensive shortcomings remain a source of concern as Scotland complete their World Cup warm-ups, writes Andy Burke. As Scotland prepare for Friday's summer Test, can you name their starting line-up from the last home meeting with Georgia in 2016? In his latest BBC Sport column, Wales centre Hadleigh Parkes talks World Cup dreams, sushi and his search for a new room-mate in Japan. Scot Jamie Gillan on his remarkable rise from rugby-daft teenager to Cleveland Browns' starting punter in the NFL. England's record win over Ireland offered plenty of positives, but there are still some areas for worry before the Rugby World Cup. Having swapped rugby for MMA, ex-England star James Haskell is determined to prove he is "deadly serious" about becoming a successful fighter. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you     Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our newsletter and learn where to find us on online. How to get into rugby union - through the age groups up to the 15-player game or try rugby sevens, which made its Olympic debut in 2016. Enjoy the best debate, analysis and interviews with BBC 5 live and World Service plus our rugby union commentary listings. Evil Genius: Watch out, dead famous people I would have loved Neymar return - Messi F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France What Bayliss is really like - Wood I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad