Share this with Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn Copy this link These are external links and will open in a new window McFly are back with a new album and show after three years apart. The boyband will release a song every week in the build up to a show at the O2 Arena in London on 20 November. Tom, Danny, Dougie and Harry first got together in 2003 and reached number one with songs like 5 Colours In Her Hair and Obviously. They last toured in 2016 and were quiet until they confirmed a hiatus in a tweet on March 2018 as they worked on solo projects. "The band is all we know - there was a huge void for three years," singer Tom Fletcher tells Newsbeat. The new album will be called The Lost Songs. McFly recorded a full album in 2011 but it was put on hold because of the formation of their collaboration project with fellow boyband Busted. "McBusted was born and it was way bigger than we anticipated so we shelved the McFly album," the band says. "We put all of our energy in to it and it was lost in the abyss of our hard drives. Before we get to the next part in the McFly journey, those songs need to be heard." The band says that after McBusted, their personal relationships were "in the worst place" they'd been. "It's not been the same the past few years, but we still got on well," says Harry. "We'd got together as a four, but as soon as we talked about the band, the conversation fell apart - there were obviously issues and obstacles." He adds that a big move from their management persuaded them to officially come back. "Our manager got us together and said, 'Guys, I've booked the O2, do you want to do it?'" McFly, who have seven UK number one singles, was formed after singers Tom Fletcher and Danny Jones were writing for fellow boyband Busted. They were joined by bassist Dougie Poynter and Drummer Harry Judd after an advert in NME magazine. Their first album, Room on the 3rd Floor - named after the hotel room where most of the songs were written - went double platinum. It meant the group beat the Beatles to become the youngest band to have a number one debut album. They went on to release four more albums between 2005 and 2010, and the 2005 Comic Relief single It's All About You. The band has gone on to write for acts such as One Direction, The Vamps and Five Seconds of Summer. In his non-McFly work, Danny has worked as a DJ and producer. Tom has written children's books and has 635,000 subscribers to his YouTube channel, where he posts about his family life. Dougie was crowned King of the Jungle in the 2011 series of I'm a Celebrity - the same year bandmate Harry won Strictly. It's fair to say fans were pretty pleased with the comeback. YASSSS THEY ARE RELEASING THE SONGS FROM ALBUM 6!!!!! #MCFLY pic.twitter.com/cq36H9t0iL End of Twitter post by @stargirl1013 MCFLY ARE FINALLY BACK PEOPLE. THIS IS NOT A DRILL. MCFLY ARE BACK IN BUSINESS! #thelostsongs pic.twitter.com/ZGxDD9cPEd End of Twitter post by @maryanne1397 Although they wouldn't mind a few more shows being announced. When the mcfly announcement is one single show in london But then they announce that album six is coming pic.twitter.com/1LQeV3e6o4 End of Twitter post by @zara__gibson Me after finding out the big #McFly announcement is just ONE gig in London pic.twitter.com/lwoC7cF1VC End of Twitter post by @jodie_quinn Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 weekdays - or listen back here. Boris Johnson denies lying over his reasons for the shutdown, after Scottish judges rule it unlawful. ‘All the gear, no idea’ Sign up for our newsletter