Slovenia's Primoz Roglic extends his lead in the Vuelta a Espana after finishing second behind Colombia's Sergio Higuita in stage 18. Italian Edoardo Affini wins the sixth stage of the Tour of Britain as Dutch cyclist Mathieu van der Poel regains the overall lead. Sarah Storey criticises the organisation of the UCI Para-cycling World Championships after defending her WC5 time trial title. Philippe Gilbert wins stage 17 of the Vuelta a Espana as Nairo Quintana moved second in the general classification. Check out the BBC Sport Live Guide for details of all the forthcoming live sport on the BBC. Road World Championships 22-29 September, Yorkshire British Cycling International Cycling Union What facing death can teach us about living life, with British Para-cyclist Liz Clarke-Saul, who has incurable cancer. Egan Bernal becomes the first Colombian to win the Tour de France - this is the stage-by-stage run down of how he achieved it. The number of female amateurs riding a mirror version of the Tour de France is growing. The goal of promoting change remains the same. A personal tragedy inspired Michael Woods' greatest sporting success. He revisits an emotional day in 2018, with the BeSpoke podcast. "There really isn't any sort of guidance" - Lizzie Deignan on how she is trying to balance elite competition with having a baby. The lucrative deal turning Team Sky into Team Ineos could do long-term damage to cycling, says pro team manager Jonathan Vaughters. Six-time Olympic champion Sir Chris Hoy describes meeting Kristina Vogel for the first time since she was paralysed in a training crash in June. Three cyclists discuss their special relationship with suffering. And can science help expand the limits of exhaustion? Sir Bradley Wiggins explains why drugs cheat Lance Armstrong features in his new book on cycling icons and admits "not everyone is going to like" his choice. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you Road, track, BMX, mountain and many more - there are so many ways and reasons to start cycling. Got a big cycling race coming up? Make sure you make the most of your warm up with this 20-minute guide. I would have loved Neymar return - Messi F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France What Bayliss is really like - Wood I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad