NCSBN performs job (practice) analysis studies every three years. These studies are used as the basis for the development of the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN test plans. Watch the NCLEX Webinar on Scope of Practice, Practice Analysis and Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (English and French). This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in licensed practical/vocational nurse (LPN/VN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. 2019 | Research Item This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in licensed practical/vocational nurse (LPN/VN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. 2019 | Research Item This study identifies the knowledge needed by newly licensed RNs. The results of this study will be used to inform item development. 2018 | Research Item This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the NCLEX-RN test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in registered nurse (RN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. This publication analyzes the U.S. & Canadian nurse testing populations. 2018 | Research Item This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in licensed practical/vocational nurse (LPN/VN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. 2016 | Research Item This study identifies the knowledge needed by newly licensed practical/vocational nurses (LPN/VNs). The results of this study (i.e., the important knowledge statements) will be used to inform item development. 2016 | Research Item A practice analysis study aims to investigate the applicability of the 2013 NCLEX-RN Test Plan. This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in registered nurse (RN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. This publication analyzes both the U.S. and Canadian nurse testing populations. 2015 | Research Item This study identifies the knowledge needed by newly licensed RNs. The results of this study (i.e., the important knowledge statements) will be used to inform item development. 2015 | Research Item A practice analysis study aims to investigate the applicability of the 2013 NCLEX-RN Test Plan to the Canadian testing population. The study surveyed Canadian entry-level registered nurses (RNs) and found similar results with those obtained from U.S. entry-level RNs. It validates the applicability of the 2013 NCLEX-RN Test Plan to the Canadian testing population. 2014 | Research Item This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in licensed practical/vocational nurse (LPN/VN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. 2013 | Research Item This study identifies the knowledge needed by newly licensed practical/vocational nurses (LPN/VNs). The results of this study (i.e., the important knowledge statements) will be used to inform item development. 2013 | Research Item This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in registered nurse (RN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. 2011 | Research Item This study identifies the knowledge needed by newly licensed RNs. The results of this study (i.e., the important knowledge statements) will be used to inform item development. 2012 | Research Item This study describes LPN/VN practice to assist NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. (© 2010) 2010 | Research Item This study is to identify the knowledge needed by newly-licensed LPN/VNs. The results of this study (i.e., the important knowledge statements) will be used to inform item development. (© 2010) 2010 | Research Item This study is to identify the knowledge needed by newly licensed RNs. The results of this study (i.e., the important knowledge statements) will be used to inform item development. (© 2009) 2009 | Research Item This periodic performance of practice analyses (i.e., job analysis) studies assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. Because changes can occur in registered nurse (RN) practice, practice analyses are conducted on a three-year cycle. (© 2009) 2009 | Research Item This study assists NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the NCLEX-RN examination. This study is the first to describe post entry-level RN practice to determine if there is a core set of RN activity statements that can be used to assess core RN competencies regardless of practice setting, specialty area and years of experience. (© 2007) 2007 | Research Item This study compares the effectiveness of two survey administration methods of researching LPN/VN practice to assist NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination. (© 2008) 2008 | Research Item This study describes LPN/VN practice to assist NCSBN in evaluating the validity of the test plan that guides content distribution of the licensure examination.(© 2007) 2007 | Research Item In order to improve the process of conducting practice analyses, NCSBN undertook this comparability study to investigate two different survey administration methods: the traditional paper-and-pencil, mail-based survey versus an electronic, Web-based survey. (© 2008) 2008 | Research Item This study describes post entry-level LPN/VN practice with the intention of determining if there are core nursing activity statements for LPN/VNs regardless of practice setting, specialty practice area and/or years of experience (© 2007) 2007 | Research Item The purpose of this practice analysis is to describe and compare the practice characteristics and activities of newly licensed registered nurses (RNs). The empirical findings are used to evaluate the 2007 NCLEX-RN Test Plan (© 2005). 2005 | Research Item NCSBN performs job (practice) analysis studies every three years. This is an executive summary of the 2005 RN Practice Analysis. 2005 | Publication This practice analysis describes and compares the practice characteristics and activities of newly licensed practical/vocational nurses (LPN/VNs). The empirical findings will be used to evaluate the 2005 NCLEX-PN Test Plan (© 2003). 2003 | Research Item This practice analysis describes and compares the possible differences in the entry-level practices of newly licensed associate and baccalaureate degree nurses. (© 2004) 2003 | Research Item ©2019 National Council of State Boards of Nursing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.