Jump to navigation At the Isenberg School of Management, we are committed to fostering a diverse, inclusive, and welcoming environment for our students, faculty, and staff. Through diversity and inclusion, we promote the exchange of varying perspectives and the inclusion of different experiences, which prepares our students to lead in an increasingly global market. At the Isenberg School of Management, we strive to provide the resources, opportunities, and support that underrepresented students need to thrive. Here are just a few of the ways Isenberg fosters an inclusive culture. Through a wide variety of clubs, such as Isenberg Women in Business and the Association of Diversity in Sport, the school advances the academic, professional, and social needs of our community, provides leadership opportunities, and helps connect students with specific identities, backgrounds, and interests. View clubs From the study of gender and organization to the inclusion of marginalized groups in sport, Isenberg faculty are on the cutting edge of research that develops the understanding and promotion of diversity and inclusion on our campus and beyond. View faculty Isenberg supports our diverse community with a range of both need- and merit-based scholarships for students from underrepresented groups, including people of color, women, international students, and others. View scholarships  Isenberg is proud of the culture that our faculty, staff and students have created, and are continuously working to grow and improve our community. Learn more about campus-wide efforts to strengthen diversity and inclusion here.       The Inclusive Leadership Summit (ILS) is the nexus of our diversity and inclusion efforts. The ILS brings industry partners, alumni, students, faculty, staff, and community leaders together to share best practices, industry trends, and concerns related to diversity and inclusion in business. Learn more about the fall 2019 event. In 2017, a team of accounting students, Jordan Darby, Logan Dicarlo, Shannon Leese, John Maroney, and Jill Porterfield finished first in the Grant Thornton Beta Alpha Psi Ethics Award Competition. In addition, Dan Calderan, Francesca Corsaro, Jackie Karol, Suzanne Meincke, and Marissa Tiezzi placed second in the nation for the Ernst & Young's Inclusivity Award. For both awards, students competed against teams from national universities for a spot in the Top 10, and then went on to compete live in the finals. The Isenberg student chapter of BAP is one of ten finalists for the EY Inclusive Leaders Awards. The Chapter has started an initiative titled, “Let’s Talk, I’m Inclusive”, and the goal is to promote inclusiveness in thought and action to students in the Isenberg, UMass and surrounding communities. In addition to workshops for Isenberg students, our students from BAP, NABA and ALPFA have partnered together to hold workshops at local elementary schools. The Women in Business student organization created the Women of Isenberg Conference 4 years ago out of their desire to connect current students and alumnae. It is an opportunity to share experiences, and communicate with each other regarding the challenges we face as women in the classroom and the workplace. This year's attendance reached over 400 attendees. Read about this year's conference here. Isenberg’s student chapter of the National Society of Minorities in Hospitality was named national chapter of the year at the society’s annual conference. The chapter of the year award recognizes the chapter that has excelled in supporting the organization’s mission and vision, participates in a variety of activities throughout the year, communicates effectively with the national board and other chapters, increases membership, organizes and participates in community service activities, and works to develop members professionally. The February 23 event's keynote speaker, Diane Isenberg, is the founder of impact investment firm Ceniarth. Executives from Major League Baseball and the Boston Red Sox participated in the inaugural Isenberg Conversation on Diversity and Inclusion.... Tony doesn’t take his success for granted. He worked hard to get where he is today. “There aren’t a lot of people that look like me in the Boston... Isenberg is fortunate to be located in Western Massachusetts’ Pioneer Valley, an area known for its rich history of inclusion, social and environmental responsibility, and grassroots activism. We are proud to build on that tradition by creating an environment where students, faculty, and staff learn from each other’s diverse perspectives and experiences and treat one another with respect. Our goal is to continually improve and support a climate where each community member feels comfortable bringing their authentic self to work, sharing ideas, and inspiring one another every day. At Isenberg, we know that a diverse student body enhances learning for everyone, and that the exchange of ideas among students and faculty with different backgrounds sparks creativity, problem-solving, and innovation. We also know that as our communities and workplaces become increasingly international, we need to develop leaders who understand and value different viewpoints and experiences, who have the cultural competency to guide diverse teams, and who are equipped to thrive in a global marketplace. Whether in the classroom or in our student clubs and organizations, through mentoring, conferences, seminars, and in myriad other ways, we are committed to your success at Isenberg. I look forward to working in my new role, Associate Dean for an Inclusive Organization, beginning in January of 2019 and growing our team to support Isenberg's, and the University's, goals toward a more inclusive organization. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.