The World Meteorological Congress is the supreme body of WMO. The Executive Council implements its decisions, while six Regional Associations are responsible for the coordination of meteorological, hydrological and related activities within their respective Regions. The structure of WMO is transitioning from eight to two Technical Commissions, following approval of a Constituent Bodies Governance Reform by the Eighteenth World Meteorological Congress in June 2019.  Structure of the WMO - June 2019 World Meteorological Congress assembles delegates of Members once every four years to determine general policies for the fulfilment of the purposes of the Organization; to consider membership of the Organization; to determine the General, Technical, Financial and Staff Regulations; to establish and coordinate the activities of constituent bodies of the Organization; to approve long-term plans and budget for the following financial period; to elect the President and Vice-Presidents of the Organization and members of the Executive Council; and to appoint the Secretary-General. The duties of the President and Secretary General of the Organization are defined in the WMO General Regulations contained in Basic Documents No. 1 (WMO publication number 15), which also contains the texts of the WMO Convention; the General, Staff and Financial Regulations; the text of the Agreement between the UN and WMO; the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies; and the agreement, plan of execution and protocol concluded between the Swiss Federal Council and WMO governing the latter's status in Switzerland. After 19 years of collaboration within the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) bodies and committees, Gerhard Adrian became President of WMO in June 2019. His main interest to strengthen the WMO through a sustainable strategic plan and effective and efficient governance structures. He aims to implement the Governance Reform approved the Eighteenth World Meteorological Congress (Cg-18) in a way that preserves the motivation and commitment at all levels and to ensure that all Members can contribute equally to the programmes of WMO. This executive body of the WMO implements decisions of Congress. The Executive Council coordinates programmes, manages the budget, considers and acts on resolutions and recommendations from the regional associations and technical commissions, and studies and makes recommendations on matters affecting international meteorology and related activities. The Executive Council normally hold a session at least once a year, at a place and on a date to be determined by the President of the Organization after consultation with other members of the Council. Decisions are passed by a two-thirds majority vote. The Executive Council is comprised a president, three vice-presidents, the six regional association presidents and 27 directors of National Meteorological or Hydrometeorological Services elected by Congress. Each member has only one vote. Regional Association I President: Daouda KONATE - Côte d'Ivoire Regional Association II President: Abdullah Ahmed AL MANDOOS - United Arab Emirates Regional Association III President: Guillermo E. NAVARRO - Chile Regional Association IV President: Juan Carlos FALLAS SOJO - Costa Rica Regional Association V President: Ofa FA'ANUNU - Tonga Regional Association VI President: Michael Staudinger - Austria Six regional associations are responsible for the coordination of meteorological, hydrological and related activities within their respective Regions: Region I (Africa), Regional II (Asia), Region III (South America), Region IV (North America, Central America and the Caribbean), Region V (South-West Pacific) and Region VI (Europe). They meet in their respective Regions once every four years, when they elect a president and a vice-president. The president of each regional association is an ex officio member of the Executive Council.   President: Daouda KONATE - Côte d'Ivoire Vice-President: Ahmed ABD EL-AAL - Egypt Regional Hydrological Adviser: Jean Claude NTONGA - Cameroon President: Abdullah Ahmed AL MANDOOS - United Arab Emirates Vice-President: - VACANT - Regional Hydrological Adviser: Sung KIM - Republic of Korea President: Guillermo E. NAVARRO - Chile Vice-President: - Madeleine RENOM MOLINA - Uruguay Regional Hydrological Adviser: Silvana ALCOZ - Uruguay President: Juan Carlos FALLAS SOJO - Costa Rica Vice-President: - VACANT - Regional Hydrological Adviser: José Alberto ZÚÑÍGA MORA - Costa Rica President: Ofa FA'ANUNU - Tonga Vice-President: Tauala KATEA - Tuvalu Regional Hydrological Adviser: John FENWICK - New Zealand President: Michael Staudinger - Austria Vice-President: Kornelia Radics (Ms) - Hungary Regional Hydrological Adviser: Angela Chiara CORINA (Ms) - Italy Eight WMO Technical Commissions are transitioning to two Technical Commission following approval of a Constituent Bodies Governance Reform by the Eighteenth World Meteorological Congress (June 2019). The Executive Council (EC) Technical Coordination Committee (TCC) will act as a two-way interface between EC and the technical commissions, the Research Board, and other relevant bodies. The Bureau is an informal consultative mechanism to advise the President and facilitate the discharge of his mandate. Established in 1950, WMO recognizes the need to continuously adapt to a rapidly changing world. The need for regular reform is being driven by environmental degradation, resource constraints, increased competition, technological advances, and other forces. The goal for WMO is to remain fit-for-purpose and to become more and more nimble and cost-effective. One of the primary duties of Congress is to elect the President and Vice-Presidents of the Organization and members of the Executive Council other than the presidents of the regional associations (who are Ex-Officio Members of the Executive Council). © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)