Jump to navigation Tap into deeper creativity, innovation and leadership skills-critical in today's highly competitive global economy.   The Isenberg MBA with a Focus in Entrepreneurship offers a mix of general business and entrepreneurship elective courses to meet your specific educational goals. This focus is ideal for individuals interested in launching a business, leading a unit within a larger enterprise, or in revitalizing an established organization. MBA students are required to complete a total of 9 elective credits to establish an optional focus area. The following list of courses are a sampling of Entrepreneurship electives. Please note that these electives are offered on a rotating basis and are subject to change. Connect with your Academic Advisor for current course offerings. Business Turnaround Strategies Digital Marketing Ecommerce Logistics Entrepreneurship Fundamentals of Product Marketing Investment Decisions & Strategies LEAN Management Private Wealth Management Quality Analytics Real Estate Investment Salesforce/Marketing & Sales Sem-Leadership & Beyond Services Marketing Management Strategic Technological Innovation Management  Students may substitute up to 3 credits of Entrepreneurship electives with a “flex” designated elective. These flex electives are applicable to all industries and can be applied to all focus areas. Business Intelligence & Analytics Data Management for Business Leaders Negotiations Theory & Practice Personal Finance - Basics Personal Finance - Cash Management Personal Finance - Insurance Personal Finance - Investments Project Management Six Sigma for Management Practice Series  Note: A completed focus will be included on your transcript, but will not be included on the official diploma from the university. Please contact our office with any questions at grad@isenberg.umass.edu.  When to Apply for Admissions: Course Registration Generally Begins:  You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.