The following disclaimers are applicable to NCSBN Websites. See also: Terms of Use (including the use of Trademarks), Privacy and Security Policies and End User Licensing Agreements. Some websites ("Sites") and social media accounts ("Accounts") maintained by the National Council of State Boards of Nursing, Inc. ("NCSBN") have specific disclaimers that can be found in the "Disclaimers" section of Sites and Accounts. Provided below are the associated Sites and full Disclaimers and/or links to Disclaimers located on the Sites. This Disclaimer applies to NCSBN Learning Extension, flashcards.ncsbn.org and these Accounts: facebook.com/NCSBNLearningExt, facebook.com/NCSBNNCLEX, facebook.com/NCSBNOfficial and gplus.to/ncsbnlearnext. We expect all contributors to comply with terms of use at Facebook, Twitter and Google+ and NCSBN Learning Extension. NCSBN reserves the right to delete any comments deemed inappropriate or irrelevant for the Account page and its readers. NCSBN may remove any post or ban anyone who violates these guidelines. NCSBN assumes no responsibility for any posts or their content, does not warrant the accuracy, completeness or timeliness of any post or comment, and does not routinely monitor or review posts. By posting content, you grant NCSBN a non-exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, unrestricted, and worldwide right and license to use the posted content. Any user who feels that a post or content thereof is objectionable is encouraged to contact NCSBN immediately. We reserve the right to reveal your identity in the event of a complaint or legal action arising from any post or the content thereof. Commercial use of any content is strictly prohibited. You may not display this page in frames (or any of the content via in-line links) without NCSBN's consent. The fact that someone has posted information on our wall does not mean that NCSBN has evaluated it or that NCSBN endorses or recommends it. Any study tips and information about other nursing topics posted are, to the best of our knowledge, accurate and valid at the time of posting. The information NCSBN provides is for educational purposes only and is provided "as is" with no warranties and confers no rights. The posted information does not constitute, and is not posted for the purpose of providing, medical or nursing practice advice. We encourage you to consult authoritative resources for more detailed information about the information posted. As a service to our readers, NCSBN may include links to other websites, but these links are not an endorsement of those websites and NCSBN is not responsible for the content of any website not operated by NCSBN. The following disclaimers apply to NCSBN websites that are for access by staff and board members of NCSBN Member Boards and Associate Members ("Members"). Applicable Sites include: ncsbn.org (for Members Only content), core.ncsbn.org, courses.ncsbn.org, examshive.ncsbn.org, fits.ncsbn.org, mbprofiles.ncsbn.org, nursys.org, passport.ncsbn.org, tercap.ncsbn.org, surveys.ncsbn.org and hive.ncsbn.org. The Site is designed to facilitate the exchange of information between NCSBN Members only and information contained in the Site should not be disclosed to third parties without prior authorization from NCSBN and/or the nursing board supplying the information. The information displayed on the Site, including information from other linked databases, is supplied by the individual boards of nursing as well as other agencies, without review, verification or editing by NCSBN. The data does not constitute official government records and NCSBN makes no representation as to the accuracy, completeness or currency of the information contained in the Site. The posted information does not constitute, and is not posted for the purpose of providing, medical or nursing practice advice. We encourage you to consult authoritative resources for more detailed information about the information posted. NCSBN encourages all Members: (1) to ensure, before inputting any data, that doing so does not violate the state's privacy laws; and (2) to not take licensure or disciplinary action on the basis of the Site information before checking with the nursing board contributing such information. Last Updated: 3/18/2016 Copyright ©2019 National Council of State Boards of Nursing, Inc. All rights reserved.