We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes It’s our job to #GoThere & tell the most difficult stories. Join us! For more breaking news updates follow @CNNBRK & Download our app ?http://cnn.com/apps You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Learn more Hmm, there was a problem reaching the server. Try again? By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Twitter Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold. President Trump's third national security adviser, John Bolton, tendered his resignation, marking the latest departure from an administration fraught with turnover. Here's a look at Trump's current Cabinet.https://cnn.it/34ySnHk Tendering one's resignation is not the same as being "Fired". I would believe a stick, before I would ever believe anything that comes out of any "Trumps" mouths, especially the main one. 1st Amendment Opinion. Even though I do not care for "Mr. Pennybag", either. I believe HIM. I’ve seen better cabinets at IKEA @Congress @Senate @SenateGOP @CongressGOP TRUMP'S CABINET? = THERE'S ONE LIGHT ON AT THE ENTIRE TRUMP WHITEHOUSE! ONE! THIS IS SO WRONG! Only cabinet I want to see is the liquor cabinet. It’s good! pic.twitter.com/NdXIuRcxeH That's the DNC Well maybe he can find a good one during his next term pic.twitter.com/v49M0VKK9z Good "....America's Cabinet..." The contaminated drain runs deep! Trump knows what he is doing. Only hiring the best, the Stable Genius stated... The cabinets in the white house kitchen better than @realDonaldTrump cabinet.... not a backbone between them And Then There Were None !!!!! Mark Twain Has Left The Whitehouse.  Back to top ? Twitter may be over capacity or experiencing a momentary hiccup. Try again or visit Twitter Status for more information.