Click here for a print version Click here for a large print version  At the Fine Arts Center, it is our goal to engage and inspire campus and regional audiences and to make the arts accessible to everyone. As we continue to examine and expand our services to our audiences with accessibility needs, we urge input and feedback from our patrons. The Concert Hall and Bowker Auditorium are equipped with an FM hearing enhancement system compatible with most ALS systems and in compliance with the ADA. Induction loops and headsets are available for patrons who have cochlear implants. Anyone with or without a hearing aid may use the equipment from any seat in the theaters. Listening devices may be checked out from the Box Office prior to any performance with a photo ID or a valid credit card. There is no charge to use a listening device. Please note that not all performances are enhanced for ALS systems. If you know in advance that you will require assistance, please call the Box Office.  Ushers are available to assist with seating blind/visually impaired patrons who attend a production alone. Inquire at the Box Office or with the House Manager to request this assistance. Service animals are welcome. Large-print programs are available at each Fine Arts Center sponsored event and are available free-of-charge at the Box Office and at the wheelchair entrance in the refuge area outside section 3 on house right. Our Box Office is equipped with a counter and personnel accessible to patrons in wheelchairs. When ordering tickets over the phone, please indicate your accessible seating needs. Concessions are available at some Concert Hall events. Ushers are available to take orders for refreshments for patrons seated in the wheelchair area. A map of all parking lots on campus may be downloaded at : www.umass.edu/umhome/visit_campus/ PARK in the South Entrance Lot, located to the right of the main entrance. The lot is reached via an access drive at the end of Hagis Mall. A nearby ELEVATOR gives access to the wheelchair seating area. WHEELCHAIR and companion seating are located in sections 2 and 3. RESTROOMS and water fountains are located off the lobby and in the refuge area outside section 3 to the right of the stage. EMERGENCY EVACUATION: Mobility-impaired patrons should exit house right, across the lobby, and into the Area of Refuge (to the left of the elevator). During an evacuation, the elevator will not be available. Emergency personell will evacuate patrons from the Area of Refuge. Concert Hall Lobby: Patrons should exit via the south side of the lobby toward the Haigis Mall Plaza. PARK along the back driveway behind the Fine Arts Center near the campus pond. This back driveway is off North Pleasant St. WHEELCHAIR access to the gallery is from the north, pond-level entrance. Please ensure the appropriate license plate or placard is displayed for parking attendants. PARK across the street in University Lot 62 on North Pleasant St. Enter through the doors marked Bezanson directly across from the cross walk. WHEELCHAIR and companion seating is located in a large access row at the back of Bezanson Recital Hall in the center of the row. A RESTROOM and water fountain are down the hallway leading from the lobby to the Department of Music & Dance. EMERGENCY EVACUATION: Mobility-impaired patrons may exit either house right or left out the main doors of the hall and out the North Pleasant St entrance. PARK in the South Entrance Lot, located to the right of the main entrance to the Fine Arts Center. The lot is reached via an access drive at the end of Hagis Mall. Access to the Rand Theater is via the main lobby entrance. Seats for WHEELCHAIRS and companions are located at the back of the theater in the center. A RESTROOM and water fountain are located in the main lobby. EMERGENCY EVACUATION: Mobility-impaired patrons should exit out the seating-area doors and out the south side of the lobby toward the Haigis Mall Plaza. Please call the Department of Theater at 413-545-3490 for more information. Located in Stockbridge Hall PARK in designated spaces in the Campus Center Parking Garage or in Lot 65 behind Stockbridge Hall. A RAMP entrance behind the building gives access to the Hall. Multiple seating areas accommodate WHEELCHAIRS and companion seating. A RESTROOM and water fountain are available on the lobby level. EMERGENCY EVACUATION: Mobility-impaired patrons should exit house left via the side entrance to the theater and straight across the hallway out the ramp entrance. Located in New Africa House PARK in designated spaces in front of New Africa House. WHEELCHAIR access is down a walkway to a RAMP at the rear of the building. Located in Hampden Dining Commons PARK in Lot 50 off Fearing Street. Follow the concourse to the front of the gallery entrance on the east side of the Hampden Dining Commons. For detailed parking information, visit the University parking website at parking.umass.edu. Together, we can ensure a barrier-free environment in which to experience the arts. This access guide will be updated and revised as future needs are identified and services are added or expanded. Comments are welcome by calling our Audience Services Manager at 413-545-0192. © 2018 University of Massachusetts Amherst Site Policies Site Contact