Jump to navigation The Master of Science in Business & Analytics (MSB&A) is an accelerated degree program that provides non-business graduates with analytical tools and skills that are sought after by organizations of all kinds. The MSB&A curriculum covers core business management topics including accounting, finance, operations, marketing and more. Need assistance with this form? Need assistance with this form? Someone will be in touch with you within 48 hours. In one year, you can learn business skills that complement the knowledge you gained as an undergraduate majoring in English literature, psychology, biology, or any other subject. You’ve spent the past few years pursuing your passions, and now it’s time to embark on a career. You may be interested in health industries, government agencies, entertainment, or climbing a corporate ladder. Learning the core aspects of business management and how to understand and use analytics will bolster the skills you cultivated earning your undergraduate degree, preparing you to work effectively in any type of organization. Current students are pursuing the MSB&A to gain skills for careers in: The Isenberg MSB&A is a versatile degree that meets the growing needs of the job market, and it comes with the advantage of our vast alumni network and access to the Chase Career Center. Students can build career connections by attending networking events in Boston and New York, and they can access one-on-one career coaching, recruiting events, and job-search databases. Isenberg's MS in Business & Analytics is offered in two convenient locations. Study on UMass Amherst's flagship campus in western Massachusetts or closer to the Boston business community at the Mount Ida Campus in Newton. The Isenberg School of Management provides an ideal collaborative environment for students. The recent construction of the Business Innovation Hub has nearly doubled the size of the school, creating spaces for experiential learning, executive-in-residence programs, and networking events. New technology-enabled classrooms support distance learning and connections with business partners in Boston and beyond, and the 42-seat analytics lab provides hands-on learning opportunities. UMass Amherst’s Mount Ida Campus in Newton offers students an intimate campus experience just 10 miles outside of downtown Boston. In addition to all the services UMass Amherst offers—including award-winning dining services and the Chase Career Center—there is also the option to apply for on-campus housing. The proximity to Boston businesses makes professional development opportunities through the Isenberg network and internships easily accessible.   Any program that Isenberg offers will give you access to a world of resources: great faculty members with industry experience, hands-on experience in your courses, the Chase Career Center, and endless networking opportunities. Choosing to get a business degree from Isenberg is a no-brainer. The faculty in the MSB&A program come from all disciplines to support the vast curriculum needed to support the degree. You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.