Jos Buttler pushes England beyond 250 on the first evening of the fifth Ashes Test against Australia at The Oval. Check out the BBC Sport Live Guide for details of all the forthcoming live sport on the BBC. Joe Root becomes the fourth man out at The Oval as Pat Cummins bowls him for 57 in the fifth Ashes Test. England bowler Mark Wood says "all of the players will miss" departing coach Trevor Bayliss and his "old school methods". Why is injured defender Aymeric Laporte so important to Manchester City, does Pep Guardiola trust John Stones and Nicolas Otamendi in his absence, and can Fernandinho fill the gap? Four Super League clubs face a perilously terrifying Friday 13th, as relegation will haunt one of them in the final round. If the Deontay Wilder fight was "a roll of the dice", the 2019 model Tyson Fury is fitter in body and mind. But his training team still don't look too far ahead. The women's game is giving fans cause to be excited as Chelsea draw a large crowd to Stamford Bridge for their game against Tottenham. After Joe Jacobson's set-piece hat-trick is confirmed by the Dubious Goals Panel, BBC Sport looks at one of football's most unusual trebles. Australia were the rightful team to retain the Ashes but England will be desperate to draw the series at The Oval, says BBC cricket correspondent Jonathan Agnew. GB wheelchair tennis player Lauren Jones talk about how sport changed her life after breaking her back in 2009. Find ways to get active How to get involved in just about any sport or activity Find a club, activity or sport near you With latest scores and headlines sent straight to your device, personalisation and much more, ensure you have a great sporting life with BBC Sport. 'England will plan racism response' F2 driver Hubert's funeral held in France Bayliss reflects on time with England I would've had to turn water into wine to sway Jones - Cipriani 'We've been shocking all year' - Super League relegation goes to final night Clijsters, 36, to make comeback in 2020 Law leads Europe in opening foursomes at Solheim Cup Sawyers and Lansiquot added to GB squad