Apply Now Apply Now July 6, - August 3, 2019 EducationUSA Academy is a short-term academic program that provides English language courses, college preparatory content, tours of diverse colleges and universities, and cross-cultural activities to 15- to 17-year-old students from around the world. UMass Amherst’s 4-week EducationUSA Academy merges intensive English language instruction with cultural and experiential learning at one of the top research institutions in the U.S. Join a diverse group of international and American high school students, learn from each other, and form lasting friendships. College preparation is a key component of the EducationUSA Academy program at UMass. Regular workshops will focus on topics including essay writing, TOEFL, and SAT preparation. STEM focused content will encourage student communication using academic language, preparing participants for undergraduate level classroom discussion. Through ESL programming, students become more adept at English usage in formal and informal settings. A major goal of the program is to prepare students to apply to US institutions of higher education. Some of the ESL content will revolve around crafting a personal statement for use when applying to colleges and universities. STEM FOCUS The EducationUSA Academy at UMass will feature STEM themes which students will explore during the 4-week program. Learn what it's like to attend a major research institution in the U.S., tour cutting edge facilities and life sciences laboratories, meet the faculty and scientists shaping research and discovery at UMass, and enjoy specially designed STEM classes taught by guest lecturers. Alongside daily English class, EducationUSA Academy Students will join UMass faculty and graduate students in hands-on workshops and weekly STEM modules in the following fields: • Prototyping, 3-d printing, and the basics of fabrication • Biomechanics, kinesiology • Engineering facilities tours and discussions • Biology and life sciences lectures  • Must be an international high school student age 15-17 • Statement of Interest • Completed online application • Letter of recommendation • Unofficial high school transcript (PDF) • TOEFL, IELTS or CAE score report. If unavailable, we will schedule a Skype interview Tuition and Fees: $2,320 Housing and Meal Plan: $2,500 Activities: $175 Total: $4,995 EducationUSA Academy Program Fees include tuition, housing & meals, activities, health insurance, and ground transportation.  UMass Summer Programs is hosted by Continuing & Professional Education. Our programs range from college-level courses for high school students to Intensive English programs for adult learners. summerprograms@umass.edu UMass Summer Programs 408 Goodell 140 Hicks Way Amherst, MA 01003 413-577-2112 summerprograms@umass.edu Facebook Twitter ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact