We serve the public conversation because it’s the best way to connect, debate, learn, and solve problems. Joining the team today means you’ll have an impact on the conversation of tomorrow. It's not always easy, but nothing worth doing ever is. We serve by promoting a culture of flexibility and autonomy. These principles guide us. Promote #health A healthy workplace sustains a healthy platform. And a healthy platform leads to productive conversations. Earn #trust To invite more voices, we must earn and keep the trust of those using the service. Likewise, the more our team trusts both the company and each other, the stronger we grow. Be #straightforward Straightforward means two things: simple and honest. A Twitter that is both of those things is a Twitter that will endure. We seek straightforwardness in our product and in our culture. Unite profit and #purpose A sense of purpose motivates us. Profit is how we expand and improve. Twitter is not a business—it’s a service with a business that keeps it going. Be #fast, #free, and #fun Our service is successful when it’s fast, free, and fun to use. Our work culture is a success when we can move fast, feel the freedom to work how we want, and have fun building something meaningful. Talented, curious people make us what we are. Below you’ll discover a few members of the team. These are just a handful of people whose lives and careers shape Twitter.  God-is loves stories. Stories that surprise us, enlighten us and connect us to all the points of view out there. She came to Twitter in search of a place where all stories can have value and reach, and everyone can tell their own story from their own perspective. It’s why she describes Twitter’s platform as “the greatest sociology project ever launched.” @GodisRivera Global Director of Culture & Community If you boil a noodle and throw it at the wall, it’ll stick. Melissa thinks of herself as that noodle — she’s been flexible enough to make it through big changes and land at Twitter. But you never know what life is going to throw at you next. Empathy, support and flexibility are the keys to work-life balance. @seeMOUSErun Program Manager, Live Brand Studio Twitter’s transparent culture means that if you ask a question, you’ll get the most truthful answer, even when that answer is “I don’t know.” It’s where trust comes from. No one knows that better than Biz, who thinks Twitter’s “fail whale” moments are just as meaningful as its successes. In the early days of Twitter, a stack of pizzas showed him how being transparent inspires more trust than showing a flawless façade. @biz Co-Founder Thaddeus knows what it means to band together and work as one team: it means everyone communicating across all departments to do what’s best for the public conversation. He’s been building start-ups since before “start-ups” were a thing. In 2016, he joined Twitter, where he and his engineers solve sticky problems through Twitter’s spirit of teamwork. @thadcam Software Engineering Manager Our past experiences shape the way we approach the opportunities in front of us. Melba’s experiences growing up compelled her to make the most of every one. She pushes herself past her comfort zone every day, whether it’s by mentoring someone early in their career or building tools that help people do what they do, only better. @melblub Software Engineer By using Twitter’s services you agree to our Cookies Use. We use cookies for purposes including analytics, personalisation, and ads. This page and certain other Twitter sites place and read third party cookies on your browser that are used for non-essential purposes including targeting of ads. Through these cookies, Google, LinkedIn and Glassdoor collect personal data about you for their own purposes. Learn more.