Jump to navigation The fully online B.S. in Sustainable Food and Farming is designed for those who are intrigued by sustainable agriculture and possible careers in this field. The major offers flexibility in designing a personal program of study, allowing students to focus on vegetable, fruit and animal systems, permaculture, whole farm production and marketing, agricultural education, public policy, advocacy, community development and more. The self-designed, hands-on internship is an enjoyable experiential component of this program that is optional, but highly recommended. 120 credits are required to complete the degree. There are 45 credits of University general education requirements, 26-31 credits of core required classes, 24 agricultural science credits and 18 professional elective credits, including internship credits if the student chooses. The University of Massachusetts Amherst has offered Bachelor of Science degrees to students at the UMass Amherst campus since 1871 when 27 students graduated with an agricultural degree. U.S. News & World Report has recently named the Stockbridge School of Agriculture #8 Best Global Universities for Agricultural Science. The Stockbridge School began offering online courses in 2008 and now offers over 40 online classes in Sustainable Food & Farming. Students are admitted based on their complete applicant profile, including academic record, related experiences, and personal/professional goals. Fall Semester – April 15 Spring Semester – October 15 If you would like to apply for Financial Aid, please complete a FAFSA application: https://fafsa.gov/ The University code is 002221. Any questions related to completing the FAFSA in relation to your UMass financial aid package can be directed to Sharon Ruth: # 413-545-3219. Email: sruth@finaid.umass.edu Please also see the CPE Financial Aid website. Alternatively, students are always welcome to meet with a counselor during office hours, call the main number 413.545.0801 or e-mail at Finaid@finaid.umass.edu. It's best to identify yourself as a CPE students to be sure to get the most accurate information. Keep in mind that CPE (online) students typically hear from Financial Aid around July about their financial aid package. Transfer credit is awarded upon acceptance; PTCE (preliminary transfer credit evaluation) upon admission, final transfer credits are awarded before the semester begins. However, transfer credit for coursework related to program requirements is done in consultation with the faculty advisor after admission. Please see here for information from the UMass Registrar's Office related to General Education requirements. Keep in mind that this information was initially created for campus students, so although the requirements remain the same, certain courses will differ for online students: https://www.umass.edu/registrar/students/general-educationacademic-requirements Gen Ed Course Planning Guide for Transfer Students: http://www.umass.edu/gened/sites/default/files/cpg_transfers_2018_and_later.pdf Gen Ed Course Planning Guide for Freshmen: http://www.umass.edu/gened/sites/default/files/cpg_admitted_students_f2018_0.pdf If you have a previous BS degree from UMass Amherst, then you only need to complete a minimum of 30 additional credits to attain a second BS degree. If your BS is from a University other than UMass, you’ll need to complete a minimum of 45 credits. All previous credit can be used to complete degree requirements, but it's important to keep in mind that the UMass BS degree requirements still have to be met. Therefore, there is a chance that few or no electives, for example, will transfer over. Please see here for instructions on how to register for online classes whether you are a non-degree or degree-seeking student. Since this program is fully online there are no visas required, and therefore no barriers for any international student to apply and take classes. Keep in mind that if a student would like to come to campus to participate in a commencement, or other type of formal meeting, they would need to do so on a visitor's visa, not a student visa. Students who have attended universities outside of the US are asked to have their official transcripts evaluated by a professional organization. Please see the following website for more information: https://www.umass.edu/cpe/enroll/international-students Please see here for more information about the State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement Ms. Renee Ciulla is the academic adviser for all students in the online A.S. degree program. You can contact her at: rciulla@umass.edu. Disability Services coordinator Jackie Walton can speak with students and explain the process to get disability accommodations. Her email is jwalton@admin.umass.edu or phone is 413-545-0892. “I was offered my dream job this spring, thanks largely to what I've learned in this program. I'm the Sustainable Food Systems Program Coordinator for Penn State's Commonwealth campuses, based at the Behrend College. It's been incredible. I had no idea when I started all of this that my dream job would be created just in time...but something drew me strongly to this UMass program, and I love how things evolved!” –Katie Chriest "I cannot believe the richness of this course, and how much I have learned. You are able to provide such unflagging enthusiasm and detailed references throughout the intensive course work of the semester. Each week as I look through the online discussions, I realize the different needs of the other students – where they live, their economic constraints, their philosophies about life, their passions. I love being able to study online, and I never thought I would." -- Margaret Seton (Newton, MA) "A few reasons I like this online program in Sustainable Food and Farming is because it gives me the opportunity to work in the field & take classes at the same time! It has taught me how to better manage my time and that allows me to make time to work on a farm and babysit to save money for land while still pursuing my degree. I love interacting with fellow classmates who share the same interest as me and learning together. I really like how I can connect what I'm learning from my online classes to work on the farm and vise versa. Getting my degree has always been a huge goal of mine. The online program allows me to get hands on experience, save money and get my degree all together! It's a wonderful solution I am thankful for." -- Cady Arruda (Westport, MA) Cady Arruda "As a passionate farmer, taking the time to sit on a school bench again seemed a difficult decision; not wanting to miss a single season at the farm yet wanting to be up-to-date in the field and take charge of the farm successfully and even more sustainable. This is what pushed me toward the online program; I could do both, and adjust my studying periods with my farmer's schedule. Certainly it demanded a fair amount of self-discipline but the online format fit my needs perfectly: easy to understand and navigate through, with amazing courses and teachers striving to help you succeed. Something I also really appreciated was the wide array of courses which enabled me to select ones I needed most for my situation. I thoroughly enjoyed every class, as the tools it gave me were applicable in real life. In addition of giving the nuts and bolts of sustainable farming, most courses permitted me to develop a personal project; work on challenges faced at our farm and find solutions to them, and develop new ideas, with advice and guidance! In the end, I gained a very much appreciated self-confidence." --Gloria Fortin, New Earth Organic Farm, Québec, Canada "I have thoroughly enjoyed the rich palette of courses this program offers, with great professors who have an in-depth knowledge of the subject matter. I found the program and its platform allowed me to access the class from anywhere and also at any time of the day or night. This accessibility enabled me to work classes into my already very busy life. Many of the students I attended class with were from New England ranging from fulltime students to those already gardening or farming. This built up a regional understanding and a new network of peers to share information. Additionally, we also had classmates from other parts of the country which provided yet another layer of richness to the classes. I found discussion forums in the Sustainable Food and Farming program added a fantastic depth; the professors also comment, help facilitate the discussions and add valuable content. It was just like being in the classroom; a rich and rewarding exchange between people." -- Arthur Hildreth Jr., Dedham, MA  Herbs, Spices and Medicinal Plants (GenED – 4 cr) -- Is taught by Dr. Christopher Hobbs, a fourth-generation, internationally renowned herbalist, licensed acupuncturist, author, clinician, botanist, mycologist, and research scientist with over 35 years of experience with herbal medicine. Christopher has a doctorate from UC Berkeley in phylogenetics, evolutionary biology and phytochemistry. He is also a founding member of the American Herbalists Guild and resides in Davis, CA. http://www.christopherhobbs.com Practical Beekeeping (3 credits) -- Is taught by Angela Roell, a dynamic and passionate teacher, whose farm supports an educational space, homestead and apiary. She raises honeybees and foraging plants on 21 acres of sandy loam in the heart of the Franklin County, Massachusetts. http://www.yardbirdsfarm.com/ Intro to Food and Ag Law (3 credits) -- Is taught by Rachel Armstrong, the founder and Executive Director of Farm Commons, a nonprofit organization dedicated to providing proactive legal education materials to sustainable farmers. She founded the organization after a career as a farm employee and local food system advocate. Education is the core of Farm Commons’ programming and Rachel is a sought-after instructor who makes the law relevant and interesting to farmers and attorneys alike. Rachel is licensed to practice law in Minnesota (where she lives) and Wisconsin. She earned her law degree from the University of Denver. Intro to Mushroom Culture (1 credit) -- Is taught by Willie Crosby who runs a successful mushroom farm in Hadley, MA that grows shiitake, oyster, and lions mane mushrooms. He also provide spawn and ready to fruit kits to commercial mushroom farms, sells to markets such as WholeFoods and offers a mushroom CSA. His mission is to reveal the power of mushrooms so more people can benefit from working with fungi and is committed to developing sustainable growing practices that improve the health of his customers, community, and environment. http://www.fungially.com Did you know that UMass was ranked 8th best Global Agricultural University and 3rd best in the U.S. in 2014.  Fill out our contact form or call one of our advisors at 413-545-2222 to ask your questions, schedule a tour, or get more information! ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact 