FM Schedule National and international news from BBC Radio 4 3/5 3/5 By Malcolm Gladwell, best-selling author and host of Revisionist History. (R) The latest weather reports and forecasts for UK shipping. BBC Radio 4 joins the BBC World Service. The latest weather reports and forecasts for UK shipping. National and international news from BBC Radio 4. Reflection with Fr Dermot Morrin, Dominican friar and university chaplain in Edinburgh. Caz Graham asks Neil Parish MP for his response to the details of this year's badger cull. Liz Bonnin presents the sonorous trumpeter swan of North America. News and current affairs, including Sports Desk, Weather and Thought for the Day. Alternative facts, impartial journalism and democracy. Can news deliver in a digital age? 4/5 Malcolm Gladwell explores what we should know about the people we don't know. Susan Sontag's life and work, intersectionality in feminist economics, Waad Al Kateab. The policeman who solved Zoe’s murder has to reconsider ten years on. (R) Simon Maybin spends time with the young men who race down the steep roads of Colombia. Louise Morris challenges Scandinavia's idyllic image through its radical artists. The latest national and international news from BBC Radio 4. In Liv by KJ Orr, a father and daughter visit a foreign city and are waiting for someone. New scanners to speed up security checks at UK airports. High street woes. The latest weather forecast News, analysis and comment from BBC Radio 4. Blockchain: a digital technology that some say could become as disruptive as the internet. Leonard hatches a plan. (R) Ayeesha Menon's police crime thriller, set and recorded in India. Clare Balding is joined by Ricky Ross and Lorraine Mcintosh of Deacon Blue in Fife. Andy Airey makes the Radio 4 Appeal on behalf of PAPYRUS - Prevention of Young Suicide. (R) Jo Lloyd's hypnotic tale about the fantasies people embrace to make life bearable. Behind the scenes of Midnight Cowboy Model embryos, Paul Steinhardt's book on impossible crystals and Mother Thames. Afternoon news and current affairs programme. The latest national and international news from BBC Radio 4. Listen live Alexei Sayle delivers a mixture of stand-up, memoir and philosophy. David makes an enemy, and Elizabeth finds herself backed into a corner. Lucy Prebble, Temple, NSSA - Lynda Clarke, Ayckbourn's Birthdays Past, Birthdays Present Artist Ben Rivers reinterprets the strange tales of Moroccan storyteller Mohammed Mrabet. (R) What strategy should the party leaders follow now? How is Rotterdam, Europe's biggest port, preparing for Brexit? Alternative facts, impartial journalism and democracy. Can news deliver in a digital age? (R) Andrew McGibbon talks to actress Julie Newmar about being Batman's Catwoman in the 1960s. (R) In-depth reporting, intelligent analysis and breaking news from a global perspective In Liv by KJ Orr, a father and daughter visit a foreign city and are waiting for someone. (R) Kevin Eldon presents a naked tractor ride, a dusty humbug and a love story with cannons. Aleks Krotoski explores whether it is possible to find a haven online. National and international news from BBC Radio 4 4/5 Malcolm Gladwell explores what we should know about the people we don't know. (R) The latest weather reports and forecasts for UK shipping. BBC Radio 4 joins the BBC World Service. The latest weather reports and forecasts for UK shipping. National and international news from BBC Radio 4. Reflection with Fr Dermot Morrin, Dominican friar and university chaplain in Edinburgh. The latest news about food, farming and the countryside. Liz Bonnin presents the raucous calling sulphur-crested cockatoo from Australia. (R) Tomorrow