Jump to navigation Courtesy Non-Employee, Non-Student (NENS) accounts are provided to certain individuals who have a special relationship with the University, usually for a limited time. More information about NENS accounts can be found on this page. NENS accounts are now requested through SPIRE, rather than with the PDF form used in the past. If you do not have access to the Courtesy Account Request page in SPIRE described below, please contact IT User Services at (413) 545 TECH (8324) or it@umass.edu.   These steps require a SPIRE account, and must be performed by or on the behalf of the sponsor/requestor (e.g. Dean, Director, or Department Head or designee) - rather than the person the account is for. The Courtesy Account Request page has three sections:  This section is automatically filled with your information when you access the page. If you are entering the form on behalf of another person (for instance your department head), please take the following steps:  Enter the applicant's (the person you are requesting the account for) name, date of birth, contact information, and other information. Fields marked with an "*" are required. The Non-UMass email address will be used by the applicant to activate their account. If the applicant was previously a UMass student or staff member, and they remember their SPIRE ID number, please enter that in the Previous SPIRE ID field.  Select a NENS Type (e.g. Adjunct), Preferred Email Type (Google Apps or Exchange), and Expected Expiration Date (how long the account is needed for, not exceeding 3 years). Note: The Pre-Employee NENS Type is designed to keep an account active until the new employee's paperwork has been processed by HR. Selecting the Pre-Employee NENS Type will add a prompt for the applicant's expected hire date, and set the account's expiration date to 30 days after the hire date. The Pre-Employee NENS Type request also requres a social security number. Click the Submit Request button at the bottom of the page. After the form has been submitted, both the applicant and the sponsor will receive a confirmation email from SPIRE. Once the account has been created, an email will be sent to the applicant at their non-UMass email address which will include their new NetID and instructions for activating the account.  One day after the account has been created, the applicant will be able to go to the UCard Office in Whitmore A168 with a photo ID to pick up their UCard. If the applicant needs a UCard on the same day that the account is created, they can stop by the IT Help Center in LGRC Lowrise A109 and request a blue UCard form. Note: Not all NENS Types are eligible for UCards.  Once logged in to SPIRE, you can view pending and past NENS account requests by clicking the Main Menu, then UMass Tools, then Administration, then NENS, and then NENS Request Status/History.   NENS account extensions/renewals are now self-service. If you are a current Sponsor or Delegate (person who may have filled out the NENS account request on behalf of a Sponsor) for a currently active NENS account, you should now have access to the NENS Manage Renewals page in SPIRE. If you do not, please contact IT User Services at (413) 545 TECH (8324) or it@umass.edu.  Note: If you were the Sponsor or Delegate for a NENS account that has already expired, you will not be able to renew the account. Instead, follow the instructions above to submit a new NENS account request.   If you have questions or experience issues requesting a NENS account, please contact IT User Services at (413) 545 TECH (8324) or it@umass.edu.   © University of Massachusetts Amherst • Site Policies • Site Contact