Whether you’re wondering where to begin, looking for an internship, or starting your job search, Career Services Offices across campus will guide you through the process of your unique career development. Are you an Undergraduate or Graduate student? We have information geared especially for you! Check our Announcements Page for updates about your College's Career Center. Are you an Employer, an Alum or a Parent? Take a look and see what we have to offer. Career Centers across campus have an extensive array of fairs, events, workshops and more on offer this semester! Visit Handshake for full details.  IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR EMPLOYERS: UMass Amherst has implemented Handshake, a job and internship search platform for employers and our students. We encourage you to request a Handshake account and post jobs and internships in Handshake. Please see details about this on our Employers page.  Click Here to Visit our Full Calendar! Our frequently updated events calendar has information on Career Fairs, Job Fairs, Virtual Fairs, and Information Sessions, both on and off campus.      UMass Amherst Alumni Advisor Program The UMass Amherst Alumni Advisor Program is a platform that enables you to access career advice from alumni already working in the field. Ask questions about career paths and industries, get feedback on your resume, or practice for your interview with a company insider. These advisors are alumni who specifically volunteered to help current students.   careerservices@umass.edu    Walk-In Advising Hours while classes are in session: Monday-Friday 1:00pm to 4:00pm For BDIC, Education, Nursing and UWW students. All others check with your College Career Center. Check in at Main Desk, 511 Goodell - 5th floor main lobby. Bring your UCard. If you are coming for Resume or Cover Letter Review, be sure to bring a printed copy with you.   Click above to log in.   If you need any accommodations to access our services or resources, please contact Career Services: 413-545-2224 careerservices@umass.edu ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact