CHICAGO – On July 1, 2019, Louisiana joined 30 other states in implementing the NLC, which allows for registered nurses (RNs) and licensed practical/vocational nurses (LPN/VNs) to have one multistate license, with the ability to practice in person or via telehealth, in both their home state and other NLC states. Nurses who hold an active unencumbered multistate license from other compact states which have implemented the NLC are now able to practice in Louisiana. Additionally, RNs and LPNs who legally reside in Louisiana and wish to obtain a compact license may complete a multistate license application on the Louisiana State Board of Nursing website and the Louisiana State Board of Practical Nurse Examiners website. “The Louisiana State Board of Nursing enthusiastically joins 30 states on July 1, 2019 as a member of the NLC. Any nurse who needs to practice in a variety of states benefits significantly from a multistate license. These nurses include military spouses, telehealth nurses, case managers, nurse executives, nurses living on borders, nurses engaged in remote patient monitoring, school nurses, travel nurses, call center nurses, online nursing faculty, home health nurses and nurses doing follow up care. Joining the NLC is one large step toward advancing professional nursing practice in Louisiana and surrounding states and we are pleased to be partnering in the effort,” comments Karen C. Lyon, PhD, MBA, APRN, NEA, chief executive officer, Louisiana State Board of Nursing. Licensing standards are aligned in NLC states, so all nurses applying for a multistate license are required to meet the same standards, including a federal and state criminal background check that will be conducted for all applicants for multistate licensure. The NLC also enables nurses to provide telehealth nursing services to patients located across the country without having to obtain additional licenses. In the event of a disaster, nurses from multiple states can easily respond to supply vital services. Additionally, almost every nurse, including primary care nurses, case managers, transport nurses, school and hospice nurses, among many others, needs to routinely cross state boundaries to provide the public with access to nursing services, and a multistate license facilitates this process. About NCSBN Founded March 15, 1978, as an independent not-for-profit organization, NCSBN was initially created to lessen the burdens of state governments and bring together nursing regulatory bodies (NRBs) to act and counsel together on matters of common interest. It has evolved into one of the leading voices of regulation across the world. NCSBN’s membership is comprised of the NRBs in the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and four U.S. territories — American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands and the Virgin Islands. There are three exam user members. There are also 25 associate members that are either NRBs or empowered regulatory authorities from other countries or territories. Mission: NCSBN provides education, service and research through collaborative leadership to promote evidence-based regulatory excellence for patient safety and public protection. The statements and opinions expressed are those of NCSBN and not individual members. ©2019 National Council of State Boards of Nursing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.