All current students in the School of Public Health and Health Sciences have the option to take some of their courses with the Department of Continuing and Professional Education (CPE) CPE courses are offered in spring, summer, fall, and winter terms and are eligible for financial aid, but the cost of taking a CPE course is different from campus-based courses and may be higher. Before you enroll in any CPE course/s, it is highly recommended that you contact Financial Aid to ensure your current aid package allows CPE courses.  All admitted UMass Students must check in with their advisor prior to enrolling in CPE courses. Once you have permission to enroll in the course, you can enroll in Spire. You will need to request an enrollment appointment. Please see instructions here: https://www.umass.edu/cpe/enroll/enrollment-appointments  If you have any questions about summer or fall enrollment, please contact the Professional Programs office at 413-545-4530 or phonline@schoolph.umass.edu Summer enrollment is now open. For a list of summer courses, please click here. Fall enrollment will open on June 3rd, 2019. For a preview of classes please click here. To enroll: New or returning students: A new student is one who has applied for admission to a program but wishes to take classes before their official admit term, or a non-degree student who wishes to take a class. A returning (or inactive) student has an academic record at UMass Amherst, but has not taken classes recently. Current and Active UMass students: If you are an active student, please register for classes in SPIRE.  All CPE courses run on the Blackboard Learn platform. You can access your CPE classes beginning one week prior to the official semester start date. You will log into Blackboard using your UMass credentials. Prospective students from outside UMass, including Five College students, are welcome to take either undergraduate or graduate-level courses. Open enrollment dates are slightly different for non-UMass students and are usually one month after the matriculated student enrollment dates. In order to take CPE courses, prospective students should follow all of the steps outlined below: The Formal UMass Academic Calendar lists all the important dates and deadlines for a particular semester. As an enrolled student, it is your responsibility to know these dates. Taking courses through CPE may seem like a convenient and easy way to complete degree requirements. However, a student should give serious consideration to the following items before committing to an online course: Online Master of Public Health Degree Programs 715 North Pleasant St., Arnold House Room 101 University of Massachusetts Amherst, MA 01003 phone: (413) 545-4530 | (413) 545-4550 phonline@schoolph.umass.edu ©2019 University of Massachusetts Amherst · Site Policies · Site Contact