Jump to navigation The Isenberg School’s Department of Hospitality & Tourism Management (HTM) is excited to invite you to our Fall Alumni Reception in Boston! This incredible event provides the opportunity to hear from our HTM Department Chair, Dr. Muzaffer “Muzzo” Uysal about excited HTM news and gives you the chance to catch up with fellow HTM & Isenberg Alums! Register here. $30 for Isenberg Alumni and Guests $25 for HTM Alumni Registration price includes food and drinks. Enjoy an exciting day of golf with Professor Nakosteen (aka Dr. Bob) at the beautiful Amherst Golf Club while connecting with current MBA students and fellow alumni. If you are not a golfer, simply join us for the cookout, conversations and PRIZES! Register today! Join us for the annual CISDM research conference at the Mt. Ida UMass Amherst Campus in Newton. Keynote, Dr. Larry Summers and others will discuss recent challenges to the U.S. & the global economy. The goal of this annual conference is to bring major thinkers and innovators to the school to engage with faculty, alumni and other industry professionals. Join fellow Isenberg alumni for a variety of homecoming events leading up to the big games! Isenberg is hosting many free events on Friday and Saturday, including an Open House reception to meet the new dean before the hockey game and an Isenberg Alumni Tailgate tent before the football game. Register early to receive exclusive Isenberg swag and get access to our reserved game seating for Isenberg alumni! Please join fellow accounting alums and faculty members from the Accounting department at the UMass Club in Boston for an evening of networking, food & drink, and spectacular views of the city! Your registration fee will help to cover a yearly accounting scholarship-thank you for helping support current students! Register today! View photo galleries  Isenberg hosts many exciting alumni events throughout the year! Such as: For information on any of these annual events please contact Sophia Love, Isenberg Events Coordinator.  You are now leaving the Isenberg School of Management web site. If you have any questions regarding the content or privacy of these sites, please contact the site administrator directly.