The US president described the move as a "good will" gesture and comes ahead of fresh talks with China. The US president described the move as a "good will" gesture and comes ahead of fresh talks with China. Australian Mark Firkin and British-Australian Jolie King have been detained for about 10 weeks. A moving video has gone viral after the death of former Indonesian President BJ Habibie. Two Britons are among five facing charges over a $688,000 (£588,000) drug haul found in Australia. Scores of fires are raging across Australia's east coast, and the fire season has only just begun. A bid to trademark the title of its in-flight magazine "Kia Ora" has sparked backlash from Maori groups. The firm's founder and potential space tourist Yusaku Maezawa will also step down as chief executive. The US president described the move as a "good will" gesture and comes ahead of fresh talks with China. Australian Mark Firkin and British-Australian Jolie King have been detained for about 10 weeks. A moving video has gone viral after the death of former Indonesian President BJ Habibie. Two Britons are among five facing charges over a $688,000 (£588,000) drug haul found in Australia. Scores of fires are raging across Australia's east coast, and the fire season has only just begun. A bid to trademark the title of its in-flight magazine "Kia Ora" has sparked backlash from Maori groups. The firm's founder and potential space tourist Yusaku Maezawa will also step down as chief executive. Australian Mark Firkin and British-Australian Jolie King have been detained for about 10 weeks. A moving video has gone viral after the death of former Indonesian President BJ Habibie. Two Britons are among five facing charges over a $688,000 (£588,000) drug haul found in Australia. Two Britons are among five facing charges over a $688,000 (£588,000) drug haul found in Australia. Australian Mark Firkin and British-Australian Jolie King have been detained for about 10 weeks. A bid to trademark the title of its in-flight magazine "Kia Ora" has sparked backlash from Maori groups. Today Programme BBC Radio 4 The Hong Kong Stock Exchange's £32bn bid for the London Stock Exchange will also raise concerns among US regulators, says Xavier Rolet, former boss of the LSE. "One issue is the LSE clears about 90% of the US domestic market for interest rate swaps and it is co-regulated by the Bank of England and the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission." However, he says there is a chance the Hong Kong bid will not go forward, or be trumped by a rival offer. He says the LSE is very valuable company and rival exchanges around the world will be having "sleepless nights" over the latest bid. Today Programme BBC Radio 4 The former of head of the London Stock Exchange, Xavier Rolet, has been speaking to the Today Programme about that offer for the London Stock Exchange mentioned earlier. He says regulators will look closely at the fact the Hong Kong Stock Exchange - which is technically a Chinese entity - wants to own the exchange. They will have questions over "how the the board is appointed, the CEO, the chairman... are they appointed as part of a normal commercial process. Do governments have a say in this?" he told Today. But he suggests fears over Chinese influence may be overblown. "There is what people say and then what they actually do. You have to look at it in the context where China represents half of global growth in terms of assets under management - almost 20% of global GDP." The firm's founder and potential space tourist Yusaku Maezawa will also step down as chief executive. Two Indian politicians give their separate perspectives on Kashmir losing its special status. Andrew Critchett waded into the water but was then swept off his feet and dragged out to sea. Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News