The Secretariat, headquartered in Geneva, is headed by the Secretary-General. The Executive Office comprises the Secretary-General, Deputy Secretary-General and Assistant Secretary-General. There are currently eight departments reporting to the Executive Office: Cabinet and External Relations, Climate and Water, Language, Conference and Publishing Services, Development and Regional Activities, Observing and Information Systems, Research, Resource Management, and Weather and Disaster Risk. The Secretary-General of WMO is appointed by the World Meteorological Congress for a four-year term with a maximum tenure of 8 years. The Secretary-General is responsible for the overall technical and administrative work of the Secretariat. He manages his role by delegating substantive authority to the Deputy Secretary-General and the Assistant Secretary-General. The Secretary-General has the responsibility to appoint all Secretariat staff, including the Deputy Secretary-General and the Assistant Secretary-General, in accordance with regulations established by Congress, and with the approval of the Executive Council. The Executive Office comprises the Secretary-General, Deputy Secretary-General and Assistant Secretary-General. The Secretariat is headed by the Secretary-General, who is appointed by the World Meteorological Congress for a four-year term with a maximum tenure of 8 years. The Secretary-General has the responsibility to appoint all Secretariat staff, including the Deputy Secretary-General and the Assistant Secretary-General, in accordance with regulations established by Congress, and with the approval of the Executive Council. The World Meteorological Organization has had five Secretaries-General since 1952 - Michel Jarraud (1 January 2004 to 31 December 2015), Godwin Olu Patrick Obasi (1 January 1984 to 31 December 2003), Aksel C. Wiin-Nielsen (1 January 1980 to 31 December 1983), David Arthur Davies (1 January 1956 to 31 December 1979), Gustav Swoboda (1 January 1952 to 31 December 1955). © 2019 World Meteorological Organization (WMO)